AromaTouch
Massage Blend and so much more...
doTERRA's Proprietary Blend combines the therapeutic benefits of oils well-known to increase circulation and soothe irritated tissues.
Aroma Touch Blend benefits: aids in relaxation and stress relief; muscle pain is relieved, muscle repair is enhanced, Circulation is improved and cleaned up; Neuropathy can be relieved and amazing health benefits subtly and gradually arrive.
Cypress: Improves circulation and strengthens capillaries; anti-infectious, anti-rheumatic, astringent, calmative, prostatic decongestant, antispasmodic, and is a neurotonic. It is great for relieving acne, skin rashes, arthritic pain, and plaque in blood vessels. It increases mental energy and attentiveness by reducing drowsiness and irritability.
Marjoram: Analgesic, antibacterial, antibiotic, antidepressant, anti-fungal, anti-infectious, antiinflammatory, antioxidant, antispasmodic, antiseptic, antiviral, blood pressure stabilizer, calmative, digestive stimulant, expectorant, neurotonic, tones the intestines, sedative and relaxing agent.
Peppermint: Analgesic, antibacterial, anti-carcinogenic, antifungal, anti-inflammatory, anti-nausea, Antiseptic, anti-spasmodic, digestive aid, driver of other good oils, fever reducer, headache, relief, invigorating, mental clarity, stamina enhancement
Basil: Antiseptic, antibacterial, antispasmodic, calmative, digestive, nerve tonic, muscle repair, antidepressant, mind mender (stimulates and clears mind at the same time) excellent post surgical for muscle/nerve communication for rapid recovery.
Grapefruit: Antidepressant, anti-cancerous, antiseptic, antispasmodic, astringent, disinfectant, diuretic; Can be helpful with eating disorders, gall bladder issues and liver and lymphatic decongestion, and in recovery from food and drug addiction. Relief of toxins to do with cellulite and long term dehydration is gentle but thorough. Grapefruit has a great tonic effect on skin and scalp.
Lavender: Adaptagentic oil ­ helps all other oils work well together; enhances the recipe for wellness and allows the aspects of Mother Nature to combine to make the blend elements rise to their highest best good within the body systems. Relieves stress, anxiety, and insomnia, relieves pain of insect bites, soothes skin (when burned or harassed it returns to perfect balance when skin heals, natural antihistamine for allergies and for mucous issues, relieves muscles cramping, soothing to skin and sinuses. It is antibacterial, antidepressant, and calmative.
Suggestions presented here are effective only with the doTERRA AromaTouch Blend Itself!
AromaTouch Technique: Unique process in which the Sympathetic and Parasympathetic Nervous Systems are Balanced and rebooted ­ Amazing Health Enhancing Process ­ for Heart, Mind, Body and Spirit. Order DVD and check for Classes offered in your area. 8 oils are used in the process.

AromaTouch Hand Technique: Dr. Hill has taught many groups this technique and many have Shared this all over the world for stress reduction, comfort and headache relief just from gently Working with the hands in a gentle process
AromaTouch Blend Diffused: 4-6 drops in Lotus Diffuser, attaché bottle to Ace Diffuser and set for medium; for stress relief and kill airborne germs. Lifts spirits and clears depression FOG.
Neck ache: AromaTouch on the muscles at the base of the neck and out across the shoulders and then up into the back of the neck where the head attaches.
Headache: apply AromaTouch on the temples, forehead and back of the neck.
Arthritis or Rheumatic Pain: AromaTouch Blend 4 drops applied to area ­ can be mixed with Coconut oil and applied to areas often.
Low Back Pain: Apply AromaTouch to the low back often and enjoy the relief.
Post Traumatic Shock: AromaTouch 4 drops, Melissa 2 drops, apply to the back of the neck and Rub hands together and inhale.
Neuropathy: AromaTouch Blend on the bottoms of the feet, tops of the feet, on the points of the feet and hands that cover spleen, liver and lymphatic systems; always moving upward from the ankle side up and then gently over varicose veins morning and night. If you have been diagnosed with high blood pressure you may mix Lemon oil in your hands with the Aroma Touch Blend to enhance the flow of recovering nerve messages.
Morning Clarity: ApplyAroma Touch Blend to the back of the neck and on the back of knees Before morning walk or exercise and get mental clarity and a boost to optimism while in motion.
Soothing Sleep: Diffuse AromaTouch in the bedroom prior to sleep time and enjoy the peaceful Rest. Apply Aroma Touch to the bottoms of the feet and low back before bedtime and enjoy.
Massage Dessert Blend: After a good deep massage, use AromaTouch 2 drops each arm ­ apply to the inside of the arms and rub arms together and inhale then add Wild Orange 2 drops and rub together and then add Geranium 2 drops and rub together and inhale and you will be productive and happy for hours ­remember to drink large quantities of water to float out the toxins that have been loosened.
Energy Booster: Apply Aroma Touch to the back of the neck, low back and on the backs of the knees Prior to a long day on your feet and be pleasantly surprised at how much consistent energy you feel all day long.

Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to doTERRA's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others. Next week we will cover doTERRA blend of Balance.

