BASIC AND COMMON USES OF ESSENTIAL OILS

Essential oils are natural, safe, and therefore can be used freely. However, please note a few cautions:

1. NEVER PUT ANY ESSENTIAL OIL DIRECTLY IN THE EAR OR EYE. If any oil ever does get in these areas, dilute with a fractionated coconut oil, olive, or vegetable oil.
2. If any oil is ever too strong, or causes any type of irritation, you can dilute with one of the above oils and this will immediately alleviate any discomfort. Do not dilute with water. If an oil has gotten too close to my eyes, I will just put a couple of drops of coconut or olive oil on my finger and run it across my eyelid and this helps.
3. Remember you only need a couple of drops of the oil for each application. Also, unlike traditional over the counter drugs, you can apply these more often. It is better to apply a little more often, than a lot at one time.

ACNE: Melaleuca (alternafolia), geranium, lavender

ALLERGIES: Lavender, Purify Blend; Respiratory Blend (Breathe); apply to sole of the foot, or put on palms of hands and cup hands and inhale; A drop or two under the nose can also help. (I would diffuse regularly to help reduce allergens in the air. I would diffuse Purify, Immune Blend, Breathe, or peppermint. )

ANXIETY/DEPRESSION: Serenity, Balance, ylang ylang, sandalwood, frankincense, Citrus Bliss; I would put this under my nose, on the back of my neck or on my chest, or somewhere where I could smell it throughout the day. I would also diffuse one of these oils regularly.

ASTHMA:

Respiratory Blend (Breathe), wintergreen, Eucalyptus (Radiata), lemon, lavender,

frankincense, marjoram; Rub on soles of feet 2-3 times daily, also rub on chest. Also, I would diffuse the

oils daily to possibly reduce any airborne asthma triggers. (I would diffuse Purify, Immune Blend,

peppermint or Eucalyptus (Radiata))

BEE STINGS, BUG BITES: Purify, lavender

BLISTERS: Melaleuca (alternafolia), lavender, sandalwood, frankincense

BURNS: Lavender

SUNBURN: Lavender; peppermint can also be cooling for a sunburn

COLD SORES/CANKER SORES: Guardian, lavender or sandalwood

COLDS: Guardian, peppermint, Melaleuca (alternafolia), eucalyptus, lemon; apply to chest and spine. You can also apply a warm compress to help the oils penetrate deeper.

COUGH: Breathe, Eucalyptus (Radiata), eucalyptus w/peppermint, eucalyptus w/ Lemon

CROUP: Breathe, Eucalyptus (Radiata); Apply to chest and along spine

EAR INFECTIONS: Melaleuca (alternafolia) w/ lavender on cottonball and put in ear over night. I also put some around the ear area, but remember never in the ear. You can also use the Immune Blend or thyme.

FATIGUE:

May help to apply Elevate or peppermint behind neck or on feet

INSECT BITES/BEE STINGS: (non-toxic bug repellant) Purify blend would be my first choice, also try geranium, lavender, cinnamon, rosemary, basil, thyme, peppermint--most give short lasting protection, usually less than 2 hours, so reapply),

PINK EYE: Melaleuca (alternafolia), lavender; Apply to area around the eye. Be careful not to get in the eye or too close to the eye.

RSV: Rub the Breathe or eucalyptus on the chest area, and also on the spine. If needed, you can dilute. You can also mix the eucalyptus with peppermint or lemon.

RUNNY NOSE OR CONGESTION: Breathe or eucalyptus on sides of nose--eyes may water when you do this, so either close your eyes for a few minutes, or dilute with coconut oil

SORE THROAT: Gargle with oregano and lemon. Put a couple drops of each in an ounce or two of water, and gargle as long as you can stand it. (I warn you this is nasty, but one time has usually been enough to take care of it for me, also you may want to have the coconut or vegetable oil handy in case any of it gets on your lips, it may burn a bit.) You can also gargle with the Immune Blend. Breathe, the respiratory blend, is also good for throat viruses, and you can apply this directly to the throat, for your kids who can't do the nasty tasting things.

STREP THROAT: Put a couple of drops of the Immune Blend in some water and drink the water, or gargle with oregano and lemon; Oregano, frankincense, myrrh; rub on throat, chest and back of neck.

TENSION HEADACHE: Apply peppermint or wintergreen on temples, around hairline, across the forehead, and on the back of the neck, can also apply it to soles of feet.

SINUS HEADACHE: Breathe, Eucalyptus (Radiata), peppermint; Apply across forehead and around sinus area.

SORE MUSCLES:

Apply peppermint or Serenity on affected muscles.

STOMACH/DIGESTION: Peppermint, or Digest Zen blend. Rub this on stomach area. For smaller children, you may want to dilute it with a carrier oil. Ginger is also a good one for stomach problems.

DIARRHEA: Rub peppermint or Digest Zen on the stomach.

Constipation: Rub peppermint or Digest Zen on the stomach. You can also try ginger.

HEARTBURN: Digest Zen, peppermint, lemon, ginger, anise; Put a couple drops in a capsule; Can also add a couple drops of lemon to 8 oz of water. By ingesting lemon juice and/or essential oils, the stomach stops excreting digestive acids, therefore alleviating heartburn or other stomach ailments.

NAUSEA: Rubbing a couple of drops of peppermint behind the ears may help.

MOLD: Diffuse some Purify Blend or Immune Blend

PAIN: Deep Blue, wintergreen, peppermint, white fir

SCRAPES, CUTS AND BRUISES: Lavender,

STRESS:

Lavender, orange, ylang ylang, lemon, Serenity; diffuse or apply somewhere where you

can smell it throughout the day--ie back of neck, under nose, on chest.

PROPERTIES OF SINGLE OILS
ANALGESIC/ANESTHETIC: Clove, Ginger, Lavender, Myrrh, Wintergreen, ANTISEPTIC: Thyme, clove, oregano, Melaleuca (alternafolia), eucalyptus radiate, cassia, Lavender & Lemon ANTIBACTERIAL: Basil, Cassia, Cinnamon, Eucalyptus (Radiata), Geranium, Lemongrass, Marjoram, Oregano, Peppermint, Rosemary & Melaleuca (alternafolia) ANTI COAGULANT: Cassia, Cinnamon, Clove, Ginger , Helichrysum & Wintergreen ANTI-INFLAMMATORY: Basil, Cassia, Cinnamon, Clove, Eucalyptus (Radiata), Frankincense, Geranium, Ginger, Lavender, Lemongrass, Myrrh, Oregano, Peppermint, Melaleuca (alternafolia), Wintergreen, & Ylang ylang ANTI-FUNGAL: Cassia, Cinnamon, Clove, White Fir, Geranium, Lavender, Lemongrass, Marjoram, Oregano, Peppermint, Rosemary, Melaleuca (alternafolia) & Thyme ANTI-INFECTIOUS: Cypress ANTI-OXIDANT: Clove, White Fir, Geranium & Myrrh ANTI-PARASITIC: Basil, Cinnamon, Clove, Lemongrass, Myrrh, Oregano, Peppermint, Rosemary, Melaleuca (alternafolia), Thyme, & Ylang ylang ANTIVIRAL: Basil, Cassia, Cinnamon, Clove, Eucalyptus (Radiata), Myrrh, Oregano, Peppermint, Sandalwood, Melaleuca (alternafolia) & Thyme ANTI SPASMODIC: Basil, Cypress, Geranium, Wintergreen, & Ylang ylang CIRCULATORY STIMULANT: Cinnamon & Cypress & Helichrysum EXPECTORANT: Cypress, Eucalyptus (Radiata), Frankincense, Ginger, Lemon, & Marjoram

The Science
Antiviral and Antimicrobial Properties of Essential Oils, by Dominique Baudoux (Excerpts)
During the 1960s, Dr Jean Valnet gave rise to the rebirth of aromatherapy, which split up into several schools, allowing thousands of doctors to get familiar with an anti-infectious technique not acknowledged by medical schools. Encouraged by hundreds of thousands of patients, a wide-ranging movement was born.
Anti-Infectious Properties
Antibacterial This is the most widely studied area of essential oils; this property is the only one that is really wellknown and used regularly. In fact, many people associate 'aromatherapy' with 'anti-infectious therapy'.
The capacity of essential oils to neutralize germs is now irrefutable. Experimental studies were undertaken in France by Chamberland as early as 1887. In I888, Cadeac and Meunier published the results of their own research (Annales de l'Institut Pasteur). Many in-vitro confirmations were performed by pharmacists and doctors; results were conclusive. In his book, Antiseptiques Essentiels, published in 1938, René-Maurice Gattefosse described the already considerable advancement of the research.
Molecules with the highest anti-bacterial coefficient are: carvacrol, thymol and eugenol; all three are phenols. Not a phenol (but related, with a benzenic core), cinnamic aldehyde has an anti-infectious activity comparable to phenols. Thanks to these four molecules, any aromatherapy-savvy practitioner will be able to master most common infections.
Alcohols with ten carbon atoms (or monoterpenols) come immediately after: geraniol, linalool, thujanol and myrcenol, terpineol, menthol and piperitol are the most well-known. Reliable, broadspectrum molecules, they are useful in numerous cases of bacterial infections. Aldehydes are also somewhat antibacterial; the most widely used are neral and geranial (citrals), citronnellal and cuminal.
Ketones are interesting for the treatment of mucupurulent infectious states (usually a strictly indirect action): verbenone, thujone, borneone (camphor), pinocamphone, cryptone, fenchone, menthone,

piperitone and carvone.
Anti-Fungal Fungal infections are a hot topic today, due to the overuse and abuse of antibiotics by most members of the medical profession; as we all know, antibiotics are first and foremost microscopic fungi. The molecular groups with the strongest antibacterial action are also active on fungi. However, treatment must be over a longer period. Fundamental studies have also revealed the anti-fungal activity of alcohols and sesquiterpenic lactones.
Antiviral The mad parasites of any and all forms of life, viruses give rise to pro-teiform pathologies, some of which medical science can do nothing to cure. Classic responses to these infections are very limited, so essential oils are a godsend in treating viral problems, from the most common to the most fearsome.
Molecules from many chemical families have shown an in-vitro antiviral activity, among them monoterpenols and monoterpenals. Ketones, and especially rare cryptone, have shown an interesting capacity to fight naked viruses. Aldehydes, whether used internally or in the atmosphere, are good complementary treatments for patients with viral infections.
Generally, viruses are highly sensitive to aromatic molecules, and some severe viral pathologies may show a vast improvement following their use. A fact of the highest interest, unearthed during fundamental research and clinical experiments: normal cells of patients under aromatic treatment seem to acquire a special resistance to viral penetration.
(end of article)
Antibiotics vs. Therapeutic-Grade Essential Oils by Joan Barice, MD (exerpts)
Speaking as a medical doctor, all physicians are aware of the increasing problem of resistance of bacteria to antibiotics. This is especially a problem with bacteria which cause life threatening infections. It is a result of overusing antibiotics, and of using them when they are not appropriate.

Overusing antibacterial soaps may also contribute to the problem. Prevention is best, of course. Allowing natural immunity to work when infections are self-limiting or not likely to cause serious consequences is also important, as is not treating viruses with antibiotics which won't work anyway.
Essential oils can be very effective in treating many bacterial, viral and other infections, without causing resistance. The natural variation in the chemical constituents in whole plants depending on climate, altitude, and other factors protects against this resistance, as do the many chemical constituents in whole oils as opposed to using one isolated "active" ingredient.
The problem is, most doctors are not trained in using oils, but are well trained in using potent antibiotics. If you are trying to enlighten a doctor, who generally has had no training on essential oils, I would suggest providing scientific references that give the available evidence of the effectiveness of essential oils in treating infections.
Examples of published articles on essential oil research, especially those in medical journals: Dr. Kurt Schnaubelt's book "Medical Aromatherapy" has a list of some basic research, including the following:
1960: Maruzella demonstrated antibacterial and antifungal effects of hundreds of aromatic compounds
1987: Deininger and Lembke demonstrated antiviral activity of essential oils and their isolated components
1973: Wagner and Sprinkmeyer in 1973 did research on a 170 year old blend of distilled oils still available in Germany. The effects of melissa and the other oils in Kosterfrau Melissengeist had been empirically known since Paracelsus (about 1500). They concluded that, with varying degrees of intensity, there was an inhibiting influence on all the bacteria tested, (Pneumococcus, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Staphlococcus aureus haemolyticus, Neisseria catarrhalis, Streptococcus haemolyticus, Proteus vulgaris, Hemophilus influenza, Haemophilus pertussis, Candida albicans, Escherichia coliAerobacter group, various Corynnebacteria, and Listeria) and stated the large spectrum of this inhibitory action is as broad as or even greater than that of wide-spectrum antibiotics.
Schnaubelt lists even earlier basic science research showing it has been known a long time that essential oils have antimicrobial effects:
1800-2002: Numerous animal and in vitro studies - evidence that all essential oils are antiseptic, some more than others and that many are effective against certain fungi, bacteria and viruses.

1881: Koch demonstrated the bactericidal action of essence of turpentine against anthrax spores
1887: Chamberland demonstrated bactericidal activity of essences of oregano, cinnamon and clove on bacillus anthracis1910: Martindale showed essential oil of oregano is the strongest plant-derived antiseptic known to date, 25 to 76 times more active than phenol on colobacillus.

