BLACK PEPPER
Piper Nigrum
Requires very little to be very effective
Black Pepper Essential Oil is extracted from the plant Piper Nigrum of the Piperacease family. The oil is made from the unripe fruit of the plant, while white pepper for household use, is made from the same fruit, but the berry is picked when fully ripe and the outside layer (pericarp) is removed before drying. The unripe, sun-dried peppercorns (fruit) are used for the extraction of the oil, using steam distillation which produces a yield of nearly 2% of total mass.
This warm and spicy essential oil helps to increase warmth of the body and mind, relieving sore muscles and joints, boost the immune and digestive system, stimulate the kidneys and disperse bruising by increasing circulation to the skin by compress and reapplication.
Uses: analgesic, antibacterial, antiseptic, aphrodisiac, digestive aid, laxative, stimulant, appetite motivator, Spleen tonic ­ excellent for most anemia.
Effective in relieving colic, colds, constipation, cough, dysentery, fevers (especially intermittent in nature), UTI, nausea, Vertigo and vomiting, dissolves old mucous in the chest areas and keeps you warm.
Psychologically, warming and builds endurance and helps you to reconnect with life whenever you feel alienated. Fortifies both the mid and the spirit in relieving sadness.
Great stomach and digestive tonic-soothing without pain of cramping.
Diffuse: Black Pepper to stimulate appetite; Black Pepper 2 drops, Lemon 2 drops will encourage Feelings of good energy and interest in food (especially when recovering from illness or Chemotherapy side effects.)
Digestion issues relief: ½ ounce coconut oil, Black Pepper 2 drops, Marjoram 5 drops, blend and message on the abdomen throughout the day. Will work for constipation, gas, and diarrhea also.
Bruises: Compress made with: 1 quart of warm water, ½ teaspoon of Epsom salts, Black Pepper 3 drops, cypress 4 drops, Lavender 3 drops. Add oils to Epsom salts and then add to warm water and use cotton cloth for compress ­ wring and apply, keep moist and warm and will relieve bruising gently.
Cold Hands and feet: 3 tablespoons coconut oil, Black pepper 2 drops, Thyme 1 drop. Blend and rub on hands and feet,
Appetite-stimulating inhalant: Black Pepper 4 drops, Coriander 6 drops, Clary Sage 8 drops, Ginger 3 drops, White Fir 2 drops. Gently blend and pour into your wick and close your inhaler.

Cold and Flu Relief Inhalant: Black Pepper 2 drops, Eucalyptus 2 drops, Basil 2 drops, Ginger 2 drops, Frankincense 4 drops and Bergamot 8 drops
Low Blood Pressure: Black Pepper 1 drop, Wild Orange 4 drops, rub hands together To blend and apply on the forearms or the bottoms of feet, also ­ inhale ­will gently energize.
Massage blend for rheumatic and arthritic pain: Black Pepper 1 drop, Marjoram 4 drops, Lavender 4 drops blend and apply to areas of pain.
Arthritis Massage Blend: 2 ounces coconut oil, Black Pepper 2 drops, Ginger 1 drop, Coriander 3 drops, Helichrysum 4 drops, Roman Chamomile 6 drops, Patchouli 4 drops, blend gently and Apply often.
Runners prior to race: 1 ounce coconut oil, Black Pepper 2 drops, Rosemary 5 drops Blend and apply to calves and then use when finished. More endurance reported and less cramping.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to dTERRA's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others.

