Breathe
Antibacterial, antiviral, antifungal, expectorant, cell and tissue repair, asthma relief; using Breathe can give relief from colds, bronchitis, sore throats, sinusitis, coughs and respiratory congestion. Decongests sinus passages, combats lung infections and relieves allergy symptoms.
Individual Specialties:
Laurel Leaf: Analgesic, antibacterial, antifungal, anti-infectious, antispasmodic, anti-rheumatic, antiviral, digestive stimulant, pulmonary antiseptic and expectorant, neurotonic, (when combined with eucalyptus is excellent to support relief of chronic bronchitis and colds thick with mucous), supports energy when medically fatigued, excellent for clarity of the mind and balance with the heart. Laurel Leaf can be effective in stimulating inspiration, and creative boldness while lifting spirits generally.
Peppermint: Analgesic, antibacterial, anti-carcinogenic, anti-fungal, antiinflammatory, anti-nausea, antiseptic, antispasmodic, digestive aid, driver of other oils, fever reducer, headache relief, invigorating, mental clarity, mice repellent, motivating oil, relieve colic, stamina enhancement, memory improvement, morning sickness & motion sickness relief, nerves (support and regenerate), throat infection, toothaches, tuberculosis, varicose veins and vomiting.
Eucalyptus--(Eucalyptus Radiata) decongestant, diuretic, expectorant, relieves respiratory congestion, promotes uptake of oxygen by red blood cells, effective in treating Malaria, bronchitis, stimulates the regeneration of lung tissue. Herpes simplex is positively affected by Eucalyptus. Pain relief for arthritis, immunostimulant, good for people who are tired, run down, prone to frequent colds, prevents spread of normally communicable diseases when diffused (Cholera, Measles, Malaria, Cold and Flu Viruses, Scarlet Fever, and Typhoid) (Spritz on Shingles or measles directly to areas to reduce pain)..
Melaluca: Analgesic, antibacterial, antifungal, anti-infectious, antiparasitic, antiviral, cardiotonic, immune tonic, neurotonic, general tonic, vulnerary (wound healing), Melaluca is such a powerful antibiotic within the body's systems that it not only eradicates harmful pathogens, but helps prevent the recurrence of infection. Very effective with bacterial and fungal skin infections, like impetigo, diaper rash, acne and insect bites. Also provides relief from itching and pain of Shingles and other skin infections by spritzing directly on.

Melaluca is known not only for its anti-infectious and immuno-stimulant action but for its power to reinforce the Lungs, Heart, and Nervous System. Very supportive in cases of chronic lethargy, shallow breathing, palpitations, and poor circulation steadying the nerves and promoting blood-flow to the brain. Melaluca Oil is also effective in reducing mental fatigue and nervous disability.
Lemon: Anticancer, antidepressant, antiseptic, antifungal, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antiviral, astringent, mild diuretic, immune tonic, lymphatic decongestant, pancreatic stimulant, invigorating and refreshing. Lemon Oil has been documented to be helpful with: anxiety, blood pressure, clarity of thought, digestive problems, energy, promoting new blood cell growth, lymphatic system cleansing, and memory improvement. Lemon can lower blood pressure, assist in liver detox, and provide relief of muscle aches and pains, cleansing and repair of skin injuries, decreases intestinal parasites, sore throat and sinus repair, pain relief of arthritis and rheumatism, excellent for respiratory system.
Ravensara: Anti-Viral and immuno-stimulant (viral hepatitis and viral enteritis, Shingles), great for respiratory infections, such as sinusitis (also earache when it has originated with nasal congestion) and where the infection affects the chest, bronchitis, whooping cough, etc. good expectorant, muscle relaxant, analgesic, mentally and physically stimulating, good oil to help people who are overtired, or depressed and lethargic. Excellent for relief symptoms of flu, insomnia and mononucleosis. It may help dilate, open, and strengthen the respiratory system. All of the chemistry that can be helpful is enhanced and multiplied when it is carefully blended with good partners.--like in Breathe
Usage and application: start with a little and wait 10 minutes, you can always safely reapply.
Diffuse: in a child's bedroom 20 minutes before you put them to bed
In event of infection ­ diffuse in general household areas to prevent others from getting same bug. In room of person with infection set to diffuse 10 minutes every hour round the clock.
Apply Directly: to chest of adults, back of adults, on the bones behind the ears, on the forehead and facial sinuses, on the bottoms of feet of children and adults, on vita flex points of feet, hands and head.
May dilute 1:1 for skin application on small children.

Arthritis and Rheumatism: Mix Breathe 4 drops, Lemon 4 drops, White Fir 2 drops ­ may use roller bottle and apply to areas of pain during the day.
Mix Breathe 4 drops, Roman Chamomile 4 drops, Lavender 6 drops, and apply to areas of pain in the evening.
Sore Throat and have to sing in the choir NOW ---apply to the throat externally, Breathe 2 drops, Lavender 4 drops, Basil 2 drops ­ roller bottle great.
Shingles: Mix Breathe 6 drops, coconut oil 10 drops ­spritz on blisters for pain and skin recovery.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Thank you for your sharing with others.

