Cassia
(Cinnamomum Cassia) (False Cinnamon) Holy Anointing Oil of the Bible
Hot, Hot, Hot -- Caution: Skin sensitivity due to high aldehyde content; needs to be diluted 1:4 coconut oil. May irritate (feel like on fire) nasal passages if inhale directly from bottle.
Steam distilled bark with an aroma similar to true Cinnamon but chemically and physically quite different. Found in recorded medical records dating from 16th century BC. Recorded uses in ancient history were for ceremonies, anointing of soldiers and virgins, rituals of recognition, teas for stomach distress, used with other oils for Spring cleansings.
Anti-aging, Antibiotic, Anti-coagulant, Anti-diarrhea, Anti-fungal (Ringworm, Candida), Antiinflammatory, Astringent, Anti-viral, Boosts the Immune System, Cardiovascular Strengthener, Cataract Retardant, Disinfectant and Stimulant.
Applying Cassia on the bottoms of the feet can sometimes be tasted on the tongue within 2 minutes; demonstrating doTerra CPTG oils' transdermal activity and potency. This oil works very well and requires just a little to affect a change or treat a condition. Blends well with Cypress, Bergamot, Coriander, Grapefruit, Citrus Bliss, Lavender and Fennel.
Phenols and Phenylpropanoids are compounds of carbonring molecules incorporating one isoprene unit. They are sometimes called hemiterperpenes. There are dozens of phenylpropanoids. They are found in Cassia (80%) and in Cinnamon (73%). While they create conditions where unfriendly viruses and bacteria cannot live, the most important function performed by phenylpropanoids is that they clean the receptor sites on the cells. Without clean receptor sites, cells cannot communicate, and the body malfunctions, resulting in sickness.*
Emotional Aspects: Uplifting, Warming, Inner Strength Inspiring, Calmative, Stress Reducing, Inner Confidence Awareness and so much more. Mood Elevating..."Oil of Gladness"**
During Pregnancy use other oils for warming and anti-bacterial properties.
All Suggestions are effective only with doTERRA's CPTG Essential Oils
Diffuse: for mood lifting ­ 4-6 drops in Lotus Diffuser Diffuse: for air disinfecting
Immune Boosting for Seasonal Changes: Apply to the bottoms of the feet 21 days in a row; Cassia 5 drops, Cypress 9 drops, Basil 7 drops, White Fir 5 drops, Lavender 5 drops, Lemon 8 drops in a roller bottle.

Arthritic Pain: Cassia 4 drops, Patchouli 2 drops, Coconut Oil 12 drops; gently blend and apply to painful areas several times a day ­ drink water.
Cold Feet w/diabetes: Cassia 4 drops, Frankincense 4 drops, Lavender 6 drops; gently blend and apply to bottoms of feet and put on cotton socks.
Fatigue: Cassia 2 drops, Lime 4 drops, Capsule for ingesting.
Wrinkles on the back of hands: Cassia 4 drops, Myrrh 3 drops, Sandalwood 2 drops, Patchouli 2 drops, Lime 6 drops; gently blend and apply morning and night; also excellent for problem cuticles.
Cassia and Coconut oil (4 Cassia, 20 coconut) makes an excellent antiseptic ­ great for all surfaces...
*Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. **Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The FDA has not evaluated the advice shared in this document. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to doTERRA's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others. Our next oil will be Eucaplyptus.

