CINNAMON BARK
(CINNAMOMUM ZEYLANICUM) (Mover and Shaker)
VERY HOT!!!! Skin Sensitivity due to high aldehyde content, needs to be diluted 1:4. Also may burn nasal passages if directly inhaled; use sparingly during pregnancy.
Anti-bacterial, Anti-depressant, Anti-fungal, Anti-infectious, Anti-inflammatory, Anti-Oxidant, Anti-parasitic, Anti-viral, Aphrodisiac, Blood Cleanser and Purifier, Candida minimized, destroys common sources of E.Coli, Salmonewlla, Staphylococcus and Listeria, Food Preservative, Herpes Relief, Immune System Stimulant, Natural Diuretic; mixes well with Citrus oils, Cypress, Frankincense, Geranium, Patchouli, Lavender, Rosemary, Clove, Oregano (with coconut oil), Basil, Roman Chamomile.
Ancient writings reflect that using Cinnamon in the home and wearing on the edges of clothes
attracts wealth and abundance; besides a flavoring in many recipes, has great medical properties.
Cinnamon boosts the activity of the brain and hence acts as a good brain tonic. It helps in removing nervous tension and memory loss. Research at the Wheeling Jesuit University in the USA has proven that the scent of Cinnamon has the ability to boost brain activity. The team of researchers led by Dr. P. Zoladz found that people who were administered with Cinnamon improved their scores on cognitive activities such as attentional processes, virtual recognition memory, working memory and visual-motor response speed.*
Cinnamon aids in the circulation of blood due to the presence of a blood-thinning compound in it. This blood circulation helps significantly in removing pain. Good blood circulation also ensures oxygen to the body cells leading to higher metabolic activity. You significantly reduce the chance of getting a heart attack by regularly consuming CPTG dTerra Cinnamon. Cleans Gall Bladder of unfriendly germs and eliminates bacteria in Staph infections.
Researchers at the US Dept. of Agriculture's Human Nutrition Research Center in Beltsville, Maryland, studied the effect in various food substances including Cinnamon on blood sugar. They found that a water-soluble polyphenol compound called MHCP which is abundant in Cinnamon synergistically acted with insulin and helped in the better utilization of insulin; so patients diagnosed with type two diabetes use less insulin. To sooth diabetes progression, combine 5 drops of Cinnamon with 5 drops of Cypress and apply to bottoms of feet and over Pancreas.
Cinnamon is great for extending energy and reducing fatigue ­ mix 3 drops Cinnamon with 2 Bergamot and 3 drops of Fractionated Coconut Oil and ingest or rub over pancreas.
Cinnamon is very effective for indigestion, nausea, vomiting, upset stomach, diarrhea and flatulence. Due to its carminative properties, it is very helpful in removing gas from the stomach and the intestines. Relieves morning sickness and high acid. Cinnamon increases the action of enzymes that break down food in the body aiding in the metabolic process and building younger cells. Significantly reduce the chance of getting a heart attack by regularly consuming Cinnamon.
Nicole Stevens published results of testing Cinnamon on various cancers with amazing results. See her publication from 2007. (www.aromatools.com)
*Dr. David K. Hill reported November 2009.

Emotional Support: Calmative, Sleep Aid, Mood Balancer, Mental Clarity, Lifts Depression,
Fragrance from diffusing provides optimism and motivation.
Protocols: PTS: Cinnamon 2 drops, Balance 3 drops, Geranium 3 drops, and Fractionated Coconut Oil 16 drops.
Motivation & Inspiration: Cinnamon 2 drops, Clary Sage 4 drops, Sandalwood 2 drops, Frankincense 3 drops, Fractionated Coconut Oil 20 drops.
Blood Tonic (seasonal purifying): with local honey, mix up the tonic and let stand, covered, for at least 10 minutes before you drink. Add the teaspoon of honey with oils to water that has been heated but allowed to cool ­ not boiling - 1 drop Cinnamon, 2 drops Citrus Bliss, 2 drops Digest Zen, 2 drops Melaleuca; stir and let stand for 10 minutes and sip for about 15 minutes followed by water..
Pneumonia: Cinnamon 4-6 drops in lotus diffuser and use 15 minutes each hour to relieve infection and assist in breathing. Use 3-4 drops in 1 teaspoon of virgin coconut oil for rectal suppository ­ lay on left side and insert and keep inside for evening.
Diverticulitis: Cinnamon 2 drops, Lavender 2 drops with hand and body lotion and rub around the core of your abdomen, apply often. Use GX Assist and loose white flour to clear hardened matter from intestinal track. Drink water, water, water.
Overeating foot blend: Cinnamon 2 drops, Coriander 2 drops, DiGestZen 2 drops, Fractionated Coconut Oil 10 drops. Gently blend and then apply to feet starting at heel and move up to toes.
Hand and foot warmer: Cinnamon 2 drops, Lavender 4 drops, Lemon 5 drops, Fractionated Coconut Oil 10 drops.
Tea for all seasons: Boil water and let cool a little, to 1 tablespoon of honey add 1 drop of Cinnamon and then stir into hot water and inhale and then sip for comfort and happy organs throughout.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Respectfully researched and presented for sharing on Cinnamon Oil by Dr. Susan Lawton, 2011.
Next week we will cover Ginger essential oil. For any questions ahead of time, please write to slawton1@optonline.net; individual responses will not be made, only answers to questions that pertain to the subject will be included in the next presentation.

