Citrus Bliss
Invigorating Blend while calming and centering
Caution: Avoid direct sunlight for up to 12 hours after use on skin.
Citrus Bliss's special combination of elements is anti-bacterial, anti-depressant, antiseptic, circulation improvement, detoxifying, immune system booting and has a wonderful sweet fragrance that works well in a working environment as a motivator and in home to brighten each person's outlook.
Citrus oils enhance Glutathione production in the body. Glutathione is a naturally occurring substance that is an anti-oxidant, detoxifier, and immune system booster. Glutathione creates an atmosphere within the body for mood improvement as well as circulation strengthening and tissue regenerator. Because Glutathione is present in every cell, it is important to note that doTerra's Citrus Bliss essential oil runs thru the whole body, so as a precursor to implement Glutathione production, the whole body benefits.
Wild Orange: Major anti-depressant, mind lifter, stimulant, pep-up.
Lemon: It's healing, boosts physical energy, is invigorating and warming...
Grapefruit: antidepressant, uplifting, natural diuretic, and relieves anxiety
Mandarin: Excellent for relieving stress and irritability; promotes happiness
Bergamot: Is uplifting and may help with depression and agitation.
Tangerine: Decongestant to the lymphatic system and is a diuretic.
Clementine: Soothing and Sedating.
Vanilla Bean Extract: Is calming and may help ease tension.
Amazing blend inside and out, that creates atmosphere of optimism and an Expectation of success. Can be worn as a perfume and positively influence people around you and even use in the office to discourage crabby people from approaching.
This blend of citrus oils is special in that they are powerful adaptagens within the chemistry of your body, These oils each provide stimulating and sedative Elements depending on what you need. So it can clear your mind and heart and

yet be calming at the same time. This group is powerfully anti-depressive, a good diuretic, tonic for stomach and intestines, motivating emotionally and healing physically.
Anti-depressant: Citrus Bliss diffused in the home or in the car daytime.
Anti-depressant: Citrus Bliss 3 drops, White Fir 2 drops, Roman Chamomile 1.
Confidence Booster: Citrus Bliss 3 drops in palm of hand and doTerra's Hand And Body Lotion blend by rubbing into hands and arms.
COPD Relief: Citrus Bliss 3 drops, White Fir 2 drops, Eucalyptus 1 drop. Gently Blend and apply vertically along the sternum.
Focus Improvement: Citrus Bliss 2 drops, Lavender 2, Peppermint 2 drops Gently blend and apply to temples and inhale.
Hormone Cool Down Compress Blend: Citrus Bliss 5 drops, Roman Chamomile 6 Drops, Clary Sage 6 drops, Geranium 2 drops, Patchouli 2 drops ...add oils to a glass Bottle and gently blend. Add 2-3 drops of the blend to 1 /2 teaspoon of Epsom salts, And add to 1 quart of cool water. Soak a clean cloth in the water and apply it to your face, forehead, back of your neck, chest or other areas of your body to prevent or cool down hot flashes.
Shock Recovery: Citrus Bliss 3 drops, Frankincense 2 drops, Patchouli 2 drops, Cassia 1 drop. Gently blend and apply to back of neck and wrists and inhale.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Respectfully researched and presented for sharing on Citrus Bliss by Dr. Susan Lawton, 2011.

