Clary Sage
Salvia Scarea
Caution: During pregnancy use Clary Sage at the beginning of labor or after delivery only please!! Never mix with drinking alcohol!!!!
Clary Sage is a dramatic plant growing to 2 or 3 feet, with tall flower spikes rising above big hairy purple-green leaves and prolific, small blue-violet or white flowers. The essential oil is distilled from the leaves and flowering tops. Clary Sage has a wonderful sweet, nutty aroma, has a dry flavor like very dry wine. It blends well with the citruses, and also with Lavender, Coriander, Cypress, Frankincense, Geranium, Rose, Sandalwood, White Fir and Vetiver.
Clary Sage: Anticonvulsive, antidepressant, antifungal, anti-infectious, antiseptic, anti-spasmodic, anti-inflammatory, astringent, nerve tonic, sedative, soothing and warming.
Clary Sage is good for: Bronchitis, cholesterol, eye problems (blurred vision, tired or strained eyes), hemorrhoids, hormonal imbalance, impotence, infections, intestinal cramps, menstrual cramps, PMS, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, Candidiasis reduction, Cell regulation, circulatory problems, depression, insect bits, insomnia, kidney disorders, dry skin, throat infections, ulcers and whooping cough.
Some of the effects of Clary Sage have been described as `Euphoric' though not everyone experiences such a heightened state. Most will simply become very relaxed, possibly drowsy, so it is unwise to give massage with this oil to any patient who will have to drive home after the consultation. Better to give them a little of the oil for use in baths at home. Stress and Tension Relief are big with Clary Sage and balancing of emotional trauma is subtle but definitive.
All recommendations shared with this document are effective ONLY with doTerra CPTG oils!
Clary Sage is valuable in treating asthma, as it both relaxes spasm in the bronchial tubes, and helps the anxiety and emotional tension often found in asthma sufferers. The same properties are potentially useful for migraine sufferers who often hold a lot of underlying tension. As well as being very relaxing, Clary Sage is a powerful tonic, and this makes it very helpful in convalescence, especially after the `flu' when many people feel very debilitated, during depression and in the post natal recovery period.

As it is warming and antispasmodic, it helps digestive problems, especially cramps or griping colicky pains. Either gentle rhythmical massage over the stomach and abdomen, or hot compresses of Clary Sage are very comforting.
Clary Sage is an emmenagogue, and can help scanty or missing periods. It is best used the first half of the menstrual cycle, if used in the second half it can sometimes induce very heavy bleeding.
One of the useful actions of Clary Sage is in preventing excessive sweating. When tuberculosis was widespread, Clary Sage was used to combat the night sweats experienced by patients, as well as to strengthen their immune systems in the fight against the tuberculosis bacillus. It may prove helpful to people with A.I.D.S. in the same way.
Estrogen and its important function within the human body is one of those controversial topics due to some myths and serious miss-information that is bantered about by various profit centered industries. Please take the time to view the webinars Dr. David Hill and Justin Harrison have put together on Hormones ­ www.doterrasuccessmap.com - Page 6 of the Webinars section for clarity on how the miracle that is the human body heals itself. DoTerra's Clary Sage has only 1% phytoestrogen as part of its make up, which is a wonderful way to support the cell receptor sites during hormone balancing and cell reproduction ­ a very gentle support
1-naturally produced Estrogen within the body 2-Xenoestrogens is man-made, in our foods, air, etc.-elements that block receptor sites of cells causing ­ body's natural functions to cease, unhealthy debris gather and hangs out creating environment for diseases to thrive, etc., 3-Phytoestrogen ­ Plant world, food sources, gentle encouragement for the body to do its natural job ­ gradually support and improve functions of hormone system rather than block sites and cause deterioration of system. -doTerra's Clary Sage is Pure and Healthful for our systems in a balancedway ­ to support Mother Nature's Miracles within our body.
(Please take the time to view the webinars to get a complete explanation-thank you)
Psychologically, Clary Sage is deeply relaxing, euphoric and revitalizing. Clary Sage helps strengthen subtle energies and divine inspiration. Vivid Dreams (color & intensity) and solution oriented thinking induced when using Clary Sage to relax tight muscles or for migraine relief. Because of the ability to help you remember dreams it is advisable to avoid combining Clary Sage and alcohol of any kind ­ historically, many reports of

this combination inducing really horrible nightmares and major hangovers are documented since early biblical days.
May cause complications for Estrogen sensitive systems only when used inappropriately.
Protocols:
Lady's Hormone Balance: Aroma Touch Technique ­ 1 a week for 8 weeks many reports of uncomfortable symptoms abating.
Memory-Jogger Diffuser Blend: Clary Sage 15 drops, Coriander 10 drops, White Fir 10 drops, Ginger 8 drops, Peppermint 3 drops; gently mix and add 4-6 drops of blend to your diffuser when needed and enjoy.
Concentration Diffuser Blend: Clary Sage 8 drops, Lemon 20 drops, Cypress 10 drops, Rosemary 5 drops.
Decision-Making Diffuser Blend: Clary Sage 20 drops, Basil 10 drops, Cypress 8 drops, Peppermint 4 drops.
Tension-Release Diffuser Blend: Clary Sage 10 drops, Lavender 15 drops, Geranium 5 drops, Bergamot 5 drops, Ylang Ylang 2 drops.
Yoga and Meditation Enhancer Diffuser Blend: Clary Sage 6 drops, Wild Orange 3 drops, White Fir 2 drops, Frankincense 2 drops; blend and Add 4-6 drops to diffuser.
Appetite-Stimulating Inhalant: Clary Sage 8 drops, Coriander 6 drops, Black Pepper 4 drops, Ginger 3 drops, White Fir 2 drops, Peppermint 1 drop; blend gently in glass vial and then pour onto inhaler wick and load inhaler ­ keep with person who needs the support ­ inhale 3 deep breathes.(www.aromatools.com)
Eye Fatigue: Mix between fingers ­ Clary Sage 1 drop, Frankincense 1 drop Apply to the sides of your temples and gently above your eyebrows often during periods of extreme fatigue.
Floating on cornea: apply to eyelid sparingly from the outside toward the nose ­ expels foreign matter--2 drops coconut oil and 1 drop of clary sage.
Sleep and relaxation: Clary Sage 1 drop with 1 drop of Vetiver apply to back of neck and front of throat about 15 minutes prior to sleep. If very worked up use 2 drops of Clary Sage and 4 of Vetiver.

Asthma- Clary Sage 4 drops, Lavender 4 drops, massage blend over chest and back.
Excessive sweating--footbaths, or regular bath- 1/2 cup of Epsom Salts, add Clary Sage 4 drops, Coriander 3 drops--add water to foot bath after oils have been mixed with Epsom salts --soak feet 10 minutes to reduce perspiration.
Scalp-Stimulating Hair-Growth Formula: 1 ounce Coconut Oil, 3 drops of Clary Sage, 2 drops of White Fir, 1 Drop of Rosemary; Gently mix and massage some of the mixture into your scalp daily. Leave it on for 30 minutes or overnight then shampoo as usual. Shampoo ­ Clary Sage can help reduce excessive production of sebum, especially on the scalp, and can be put in a final rinsing after shampooing for people with very greasy hair or dandruff.
Serenity Personal Blend: 3 tablespoons coconut oil, Clary Sage 2 drops, Melissa 2 drops, Roman Chamomile 1 drop, Lavender 1 drop, Wild Orange 2 drops; add oils together and mix gently and wear as a fragrance or inhale directly from the bottle as needed.
Fear-Less Personal Blend: Coconut Oil 3 tablespoons, Clary Sage 3 drops, Sandalwood 4 drops, Coriander 2 drops, Ginger 1 drop, Wild Orange 2 drops.
Creativity Flow Enhanced; Coconut oil 3 tablespoons, Helichrysum 3 drops, Clary Sage 2 drops, Basil 2 drops, Wild Orange 1 drop, Rose oil 1 drop: gently blend and add 2-3 drops to palm of hand and rub hands together and around the wrists and inhale with clear intention of smooth inspiration arriving and staying thru the project's completion.
Impatience/Irritability ELIMINATOR Personal Blend: Coconut Oil 3 tablespoons, Clary Sage 2 drops, Lavender 4 drops, Geranium 3 drops, Frankincense 1 drop, Patchouli 1 drop: Blend gently and apply to bones behind the ears, wrists and inhale. Wear as fragrance and remember your Intention for personal calm and self trust.
Candida Facial Oil: Coconut oil 1 ounce, Clary Sage 3 drops, Geranium 2 drops, Myrrh 2 drops, Patchouli 1 drop, Frankincense 2 drops; apply to the affected areas as needed, until symptoms subside ­ will soothe skin and Relieve irritation.
Cellulite Skin Oil: Coconut Oil 4 ounces, Clary Sage 3 drops, Patchouli 4 drops, Wild Orange 4 drops, Grapefruit 3 drops, Lemon 4 drops, Rosemary

2 drops; gently blend and massage in upward strokes across area to be recovered.
Sexuality Massage Oil: Coconut oil 2 ounces, Clary Sage 4 drops, Sandalwood 6 drops, Ylang Ylang 4 drops, Coriander 2 drops, Patchouli 2 drops, Ginger 2 drops, Basil 1 drop and Vetiver 1 drop; Gently blend in glass vial and use the mixture to massage your partner and visa versa and enjoy....
Flow-Inducing Oil: Coconut oil 2 ounces, Clary Sage 6 drops, Coriander 2 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Wild Orange 2 drops. Apply across lower abdomen.
Nighttime Muscle Relief Oil: Coconut oil 3 ounces, Clary Sage 5 drops, Roman Chamomile 10, Marjoram 10, Coriander 3, Ylang Ylang 4 drops; gently blend and apply to sore muscles as needed.
PMS Personal Blend: Coconut oil 3 tablespoons, Clary Sage 3 drops, Wild Orange 4 drops, Geranium 2 drops, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Rose 1 drop. Apply to forearms and inhale.
Resources: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to doTerra's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others. Next week we will cover Roman Chamomile.

