CLOVE
Eugenia Caryophyllata
Pain Relieving, Comforting and Revitalizing
Caution: use with caution during pregnancy and in about 5% of the population when applied topically may provoke skin sensitivity...better to use internally.
Clove is a long-lived evergreen tree with glossy green leaves and rosy-pink buds, which become fragrant red flowers and purple fruit. Steam distilled from bud. Clove bud has fresh, fruity top notes and deep, sweet, spicy undertones. Mixes well with Basil, Bergamot, Cinnamon, Clary Sage, Grapefruit, Lavender, Lemon, Lemongrass, Orange, Patchouli, Peppermint, Rose, Rosemary, Sandalwood and Ylang Ylang. Clove oil has the following properties: Analgesic, Anti-aging, Antibacterial, Anticonvulsant, Anticoagulant, Antifungal, Anti-infectious, Anti-Inflammatory, antioxidant, anti-parasitic, strong antiseptic, antitumor, antiviral, disinfectant, Immune Stimulant.., Research indicates Clove Bud's usefulness for Poliomyletis, Multiple Sclerosis, Cholera, Hodgkins Disease, Hepatitis, Malaria, Viral Colitis, Dysentery, Spasmodic Colitis, Thyroid Imbalance, Arthritis, Viral Neuritis, Neuralgia, and Cystitis. Historically, Clove has proven effective with gum and tooth issues for pain, anti-infectious for mouth sores, healing of digestive issues along with reducing bad breath and bronchitis; effective in recovering from addictions (smoking, sugar, caffeine, or oral addictions). Other reported current uses: My favorite ­ it is a "Drawing Salve" (it helps pull infection from tissues) Skin cancer, Thyroid Dysfunction, leg ulcers, tuberculosis infections, Cardiovascular Disease, Viral Hepatitis, Vomiting and Warts, Fatigue, Cystitis, Hypertension, relief of insect bites and discourages biting bugs from hanging around. Clove Oil may improve mental clarity and memory (mental stimulant) and create a feeling of expanded courage sense of well being. Clove Oil can encourage sleep and stimulate vivid dreams. Clove is a mental, emotional and subtle energy tonic, and is both restorative and stimulating. Certified Pure Therapeutic Grade (CPTG) Essential Oils are amazing at eliminating "free radicals" within our systems. One of the reasons I encourage people to use oils daily in their lives is to keep the possible cancer creating debris at very low levels. Clove Bud Oil has a very high rating on the ORAC (Oxygen Radical Absorption Capacity) Scale. The Higher the ORAC score, the more capable that particular food or oil is in destroying free radicals, thus retarding the aging process and preventing cancers and other diseases. Antioxidant (ORAC) Scores For Selected Essential Oils ** i.e. Sandalwood 1,655; Rosemary 3,309; Cinnamon Bark 103,448; Clove Oil 10,786,875 as examples,

All Information Shared Is Effective with doTERRA CPTG Essential Oils ONLY
According to research *** most essential oils score higher than most fruits and vegetables in providing antioxidants (Substances that inhibit oxidation-aging) In fact, Essential oils have the highest ORAC scores of all the substances in the world. An ounce of Clove Bud Oil has the antioxidant capacity of 450 pounds of carrots, 120 quarts of blueberries or 48 gallons of beet juice.
According to Nicole's Research, Clove Oil has a great affinity for inhibiting the growth and reproduction of Cervical and Skin Cancers. **** The really cool part of using essential oils each day is the opportunity to keep the inner workings of the body optimal and resist aging. Nicole's study revealed in great detail that using essential oils can be effective at keeping the internal environment of the body healthy without side effects of leaving debris behind or hurting healthy cells in killing off pathogens, cancer producing elements and free radicals.
Clove Oil has the Phenylpropanoids (like in Cassia, Cinnamon, Oregano,etc.) that can create conditions where unfriendly viruses and bacteria cannot live, the most important function they perform is that they clean the receptor sites on our cells. Without clean receptor sites, cells cannot communicate, and the body malfunctions, resulting in sickness.
Dr. Hill has taught us in many ways and given many examples of the same three principles of why essential oils are such effective healing and age reversing blessings for us all. First, they clean receptor sites on the surfaces of cells allowing the proper transfer of hormones, peptides, neurotransmitters, steroids and other intracellular messengers. Second, the deprogramming of bad information that has glommed onto the "RNA gold card" that is your special recipe of cell reproduction for perfect cells. This is the "quantum healing" factor that lead me thru so much research for years. Third, ability to reprogram the perfect cellular information so the body can repair itself. The heavy chemistry is available on line and in many books available thru www.aromatools.com.
Clove Oil is one of the oldest in many recorded histories of medical practices from around the world. Clove Oil was first used in foods and stews and as an aromatic fragrance mixed with Myrrh and Cinnamon; to soak feet, to rub on arthritic joints, sooth stomach distress and deter insects that carried diseases. Clove Oil is part of the Protective Blend On Guard created by doTERRA to help us deal with diseases and boost our immune systems. Because the wonderful combination of oils in On Guard it does all three antiaging principles described previously and to use this blend each day or night on the bottoms of feet can help us avoid disease on many levels today.
Cigarette manufacturers add many ingredients to their products to improve taste; because of its ability to numb the tongue, Clove is added to many cigarettes to reduce the bite and take away the sting, thus producing a smoother taste. Funny thing is that we use a little bit of Clove oil on the tongue to help people break the smoking habit.
** Healing Oils of the Bible, by David Stewart, 2005 *** The Chemistry of Essential Oils Made Simple, 2004 **** Essential Oil Cancer Research, Nicole Stevens, Abundant Health, 2009

TOOTHACHE: Clove Bud Oil is the first choice for toothache in an emergency. A couple of drops of Clove Oil on a cotton swab and applied to the aching tooth, has a slight anesthetic affect, relieving pain for a few hours. If the pain is caused by a lost filling, a cotton ball soaked in Clove Oil and inserted into the cavity will have the same analgesic, anesthetic effect. Its strong antiseptic properties make Clove good at preventing colds and flu. Overall, Clove is pain-relieving, comforting and revitalizing.
GROUP IMMUNITY: Diffuse Clove, Cinnamon and Wild Orange when groups are gathering in small or warm places so the mutual germ sharing is kept to a minimum and many air borne pathogens are eliminated. Spirits are also lifted and friction is reduced.
Long Term Neuropathy of Feet: Clove 3 drops, Aroma Touch 6 drops, Lemon 3 drops, Cypress 3 drops, apply to feet and ankles every 3 hours throughout the day and wear thick cotton socks, and drink water.
All Purpose Digest-Aid Oil: 2 ounces of doTERRA's Coconut Oil, Clove 3 drops, Basil 3 drops, Rosemary 2 drops, Thyme 2 drops, 1 drop Coriander, Ginger 1 drop and Peppermint 1 drop. Put carrier oil into glass container; add the oils and gently turn the container upside down several times to blend. Rub the mixture over your entire abdominal area twice daily or as needed.
Circulation-Boosting Body Oil: 2 ounces of doTERRA's Coconut Oil, Clove 3 drops, Rosemary 3 drops, Lemon 4 drops, Geranium 2 drops, Myrrh 2 drops, Ginger 1 drop, Vetiver 1 drop. Apply after gently Blending together.
Oral Addictions: To support serious changes in behavior to do with mouth (cigarettes, sugar, bad selftalk, alcohol, etc.) Clove Oil on the tongue to support resisting urges, Clove oil with Wild Orange in water to sooth urges for sugar, when old self critical lists play in head use Clove Oil with Lavender and Frankincense on the back of the neck and focus on your virtues.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Respectfully researched and presented for sharing on Clove by Dr. Susan Lawton, 2011.

