Coriander Coriandrum Sativum (More than 3000 years of expressed usage)
Coriander is an annual plan t (bright-green feathery leaves that are delicately lobed) that produces small, globular, grayish aromatic seeds historically used for flavoring (like caraway or poppy seed). Steam distilled from seeds. Most seeds contain both fatty and essential oils. When seeds are steam distilled, only the lighter essential oils pass through the evaporation/condensation process, leaving the fatty oils back in the plant mass in the cooker. The scent is a fresh, spicy fragrance that is sweet, woody, and slightly balsamic. It takes about 45 pounds of seed to produce 1 pound of Coriander oil.
Egyptians called it the Herb of Happiness. Found in the tombs of Tutankhamun and Ramses II. The Chinese incorporated Coriander into their medical practice as long ago as 207 B.C.E. and believed that Coriander could bestow IMMORTALITY.
Coriander is rumored to be part of the Babylonian Gardens for Wedding Celebrations and Funerals. In India, Coriander was a remedy for constipation and insomnia, as well as for easing the pain of childbirth. Women consumed the seeds regularly to promote fertility. During the Elizabethan era, candy coated coriander seeds were served as a sweet after meals and to guard against gas.
Properties: analgesic, antibacterial, anti-depressive, antifungal, anti-infectious, anti-inflammatory (topical application) antioxidant, anti-rheumatic, antispasmodic, stimulant (cardiac, circulatory, nervous systems).
Reported as an aphrodisiac of the Middle East, Egypt, and Palestine, Coriander was used as such in the classic tale, The Arabian Nights. Brought to Europe during the Crusades for use as a Love Potion, it flavored a popular drink of the Middle Ages called Hippocras (wine with Coriander and Fennel seeds) that was drunk at weddings to inspire love and sex!!!
Everything shared here is about and with doTerra CPTG Essential Oils
Coriander is a natural deodorant.
May be helpful with: anorexia, appetite stimulation, arthritis, chronic fatigue syndrome, colds, colic, diabetes, diarrhea, digestive spasms, dyspepsia, fatigue, flatulence, flu, fluid retention (relieves), gout, hemorrhoids, hernias, hypoglycemia, infections (general), measles, migraine, muscular aches and pains, nausea, neurotonic, neuralgia, piles, poor circulation, rheumatism, skin (acne) and muscular stiffness like TMJ.. Can stop hiccups (apply to mastoid points and across stomach). Coriander is a circulatory stimulant and encourages the release of toxins from the body, thereby improving conditions such as arthritis, chronic fatigue syndrome, gout, rheumatism and a sluggish lymph system.
Emotional: Can provide a calming influence to those suffering from shock or fear when diffused into the area. Can be stimulating to those who are suffering from low energy when diffused. Comforts the intellect and uplifts the mind benefiting those who are both worried and emotionally bereft. Coriander is helpful for the depression that develops from a lack of variation and opportunity. Easing the oppression of the daily grind, it instills an optimistic and inventive resourcefulness in those whose situation is one of repetitious duty. Stimulates the central nervous system and relieves

lethargy, mental fatigue and nervousness. Some report that it decreases dizziness. It improves memory and mental functions. It promotes Happiness and Joy by reducing worry. This is considered a protective oil and helps to increase feelings of spontaneity and passion and seeks to achieve stability without denying Joy. Coriander seed oil is ideally suited, therefore, to complex, creative individuals who find it difficult to cope with predictability and routine. Although they need stability and emotional security, the resilience they seek is borne of passionate involvement, rather than of self-protection.
Many individuals who have been diagnosed with diabetes benefit from ingesting Coriander on a regular basis. Patients have reported when acute stress or sustained tension starts a high sugar response ­ applying Coriander directly over Pancreas and Stomach mitigates the symptoms (profuse sweating, dizziness, disorientation, etc.) almost immediately.
Diabetic Diagnosis Resolution Suggestions:
Aroma Touch Technique weekly in an ideal world.
Daily Nutrition and circulation support: Vitality Pack, Trim Shake for one meal a day, Terrazyme, Zendocrine, DiGest Zen (Coriander present) 2 drops before each meal, GXAssist, PBAssist monthly. Coriander 5, Cinnamon 3, Grapefruit 3 ­ (Dr. David Hill)- balances blood sugar if you take in a capsule mornings...
Neuropathy can be treated with:
Coriander 4 drops, Aroma Touch 3 drops, Frankincense 3 drops ­ massage gently
Aroma Touch 4 drops, Cypress 3 drops with Coriander 3 drops for large areas--massage gently
Frankincense 3 drops, Geranium 3 drops, Lavender 3 drops, Coriander 2 drops; massage gently
Geranium 3 drops, Coriander 3 drops, Peppermint 2 drops, Patchouli 2 drops (not for high blood pressure Or hypertension diagnosed) massage gently
Caution: A LITTLE goes a long way... Coriander can be overwhelming if used too much at one time.
Appetite-Stimulating Stomach Rub: 2 ounces Fractionated Coconut Oil 3 drops Coriander 2 drops Basil 2 drops Wild Orange 2 drops of Thyme 1 drop Oregano 1 drop Rosemary Rub on stomach and all around the abdomen as needed.

Constipation Abdominal Rub: 4 ounces Fractionated Coconut Oil 5 drops Coriander 7 drops Wild Orange 4 drops Lemon 2 drops Ginger 4 drops DigestZen Apply clockwise around the belly...
Diarrhea Diminisher: 2 ounces of Fractionated Coconut Oil 2 drops of Coriander 6 drops of Cypress 4 drops of Lemon 4 drops of Wild Orange 2 drops of Peppermint Massage the mixture over your abdominal area and lower back as necessary.
Fear-Less Personal Blend: 2 tablespoons of Fractionated Coconut Oil 2 drops Coriander Oil 1 drop of Ginger 1 drop Wild Orange 4 drops of Sandalwood Wear as a fragrance or inhale from the bottle as needed.
Hemorrhoid Massage Oil: 1 ounce Fractionated Coconut Oil 1 drop of Coriander 1 drop of Myrrh 4 drops of Lavender 2 drops of Melaleuca Apply the oil externally as needed.
Sexuality Bath Blend: ½ cup Epsom salts 3 drops of Patchouli 2 drops of Clary Sage 1 drop Coriander 1 drop Ylang Ylang Oil In clean dry tub place Epsom salts under where tap water will come in add the oils directly into the Epsom Salts and mix with very warm water and when dissolved make water the temp that is comfortable for you and your partner for 15 to 20 minutes.

Sexuality Massage Oil: 2 ounces Fractionated Coconut Oil 4 drops Sandalwood 3 Drops Clary Sage 3 Drops Ylang Ylang 3 Drops Coriander 2 Patchouli 2 drops Frankincense 1 drop Vetiver Blend in glass bottle and then apply to your partner with your own special background light and music and have your partner apply to you and....
Balancing after a Heavy Emotional Confrontation: 3 drops Coriander 2 drops Patchouli 2 drops White Fir 2 drops Sandalwood Mix gently and then apply to the back of the neck and inhale from the hands after rubbing together and making warm.
To Relieve Tedium: 3 drops Coriander 2 drops Patchouli 1 drop Bergamot
Note: If you think you need an antibiotic for any reason you should already be on GXASSIST ­ can take every four hours for three days and then just follow the directions on the container and there will be only positive side effects of this.... If you took prescription antibiotics for any reason in the last year you can really benefit from a round of GXASSIST followed by PB ASSIST and start TerraZyme with each meal for a few weeks to optimize cleansing and to help you really be done with the cough and the draggy feeling. Give Mother Nature a chance and your quality of life will just improve and you will defy aging.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Essential Oils Reference Guide, R.L. James, 2009 Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Thank you for your sharing with others.

