Deep Blue
Soothing Blend
Amazing Webinar by Dr. David K. Hill on www.builddoterracom - Dr. Hill tells us that he especially formulated Deep Blue for:
a. Relieve symptoms b. Reduce inflammation, healing of an area
Dr. Hill shares that Deep Blue is remarkable because of the purity of the oils used in the blend the cells absorb the blend quickly (blood flow is stimulated) and because our systems are connected so well you can apply to a knee and the pain in your neck may also be relieved as the blend is processed thru your system; and so much more.
Helpful hints from Dr. Hill: - do not rub in your eyes; use a little and wait for relief for a few minutes --then add a little more if you need it; Dr. Hill said that if you use smaller amounts more often you would experience consistent relief.
DEEP BLUE 5ml. - carry in purse or car for emergencies 10 ml. Roll on - part of traveling first aid kit, bedside table for nighttime relief Deep Blue Rub - 5ml. of Deep Blue per tube - again - a little goes a long way and the lotion will not irritate or dry out skin or hurt rashes.
Great topical analgesic blend that if used consistently can reduce inflammation and pain, so that the body (when properly hydrated and fed the right nutrition) can proceed with resolution of the origin of pain in the area.
Wintergreen: Wintergreen has properties that make it an effective; analgesic, anticoagulant, anti-inflammatory, anti-rheumatic, antifungal, antiseptic, antispasmodic, disinfectant, diuretic, stimulant (bone) and warming. This oil may be beneficial for acne, bladder infection, cystitis, eczema, edema, reducing fever, gallstones, gout, infection, periodontal and gum disease, reducing discomfort in joints, kidney stones, draining and cleansing the lymphatic system, boosting the immune system, obesity, osteoporosis, skin diseases, scalp issues and dandruff, ulcers and urinary tract disorders. It is known for its ability to alleviate bone pain. It has a cortisone-like action due to the high content of methyl salicylate. For nerve or tissue pain use diluted 1:1 with coconut oil. Blends well with Basil, Bergamot, Cypress, Geranium, Helichrysum, Lavender, Lemongrass, Marjoram, Frankincense, White Fir and Peppermint.
Camphor: The therapeutic properties of Camphor Essential Oil include the following: anti-inflammatory, antiseptic, cardiac soother, carminative, diuretic,

febrifuge (reduces fever), insecticide, laxative, stimulant and vulnerary (speeds wound healing). Camphor oil can be used in the treatment of nervous depression, acne, inflammation, arthritis, muscular aches and pains, sprains, rheumatism, bronchitis, coughs, colds, fever, flu and infectious diseases.
Peppermint: Analgesic, antibacterial, anticarcinogenic, ant repellent, antifungal, anti-inflammatory, anti-nausea, antiseptic, antispasmodic, cockroach repellent, digestive aid, driver of other oils, expectorant, fever reducer, headache relief, invigorating, menopause symptom relief, mental clarity, mice repellent, motivating oil, relieve colic, stamina enhancement, etc.
Blue Tansy: antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, analgesic/anesthetic, anti-itching, relaxant, gentle hormone-like activity in that it clears receptor sites so proper matches within the hormone world take place. Great affinity for soft tissue tuning, Muscle relaxing, clears excess debris from tissues so that improved oxygenation takes place so age reduction at the cellular level happens. Gentle to the skin and gentle in its action ­ soothing in nature. Relieves anger, and promotes a feeling of self-control.
German Chamomile: anti-infectious, anti-inflammatory, anti-parasitic, antispasmodic, calming, antiseptic, and relaxing. For centuries, people have recommended Roman Chamomile for colic, gout, headaches, heartburn, indigestion and loss of appetite, as well as to promote urination and relieve diarrhea. Also has been used to prevent nightmares or to calm a person who has suffered from nightmares. It soothes muscle pain and inflamed joints and reduces the discomfort of arthritis, backaches, bursitis, carpal tunnel syndrome, rheumatism and sciatica.
Helichrysum: Is anti-inflammatory, Helichrysum Essential Oil is believed to soothe away deep emotional stress and diffuse anger and destructive feelings. Helichrysum is good for dry skin because it reduces skin irritation and puffiness that so often accompany the dryness. Reduces swelling and inflammation very quickly at the site of swelling. Excellent for chelating toxins out of system - brain and skin both.
Osmanthus: amazing rich fragrance that lifts everyone's spirits; kind to dry skin and silky in nature
Deep Blue Rub: When recovering from muscle aches and pains just sparingly apply the Rub to the area and rest for a few minutes and let it work.
Post Surgery: For Pain after surgery -- at least 3 inch radius from incision apply Deep Blue Oil every 2 hours - if a knee replacement or elbow or shoulder -- apply to opposite knee and bottom of foot of same side -- 65% of what is applied will benefit the recovery site. Help patient be hydrated as inflammation can be

reduced with good hydration.
Shingles: tiny amount of Epsom salts in spritzer bottle add 6 drops of Deep Blue and water and gently spray area of Shingles Pattern for relief of pain and skin distress.
Burns: Spritz area around burn with Deep Blue and put Lavender repeatedly directly on Burn site for total healthy skin recovery.
Muscle Tears and Repairs: Deep Blue 4 drops, Marjoram 3 drops, White Fir 3 drops, Frankincense 3 drops - roller bottle is good and apply over damaged tissue 4 - 5 times a day - with very sensitive skin dilute 3:1 with coconut oil being the minor.
Pain in the Neck: Deep Blue 4 drops, Basil 3 drops, Coconut oil 7 drops, roller bottle fine, apply and rub upward.
Migraine Headaches: Deep Blue Roll on - the muscles at the base of the neck and off toward the shoulders - apply in little amounts and then warm moist towels on the back of the neck - apply more in 10 minutes if you need it.
Headaches: Deep Blue on the fingertip of one hand and apply to temples and bones behind the ears; wait 5 minutes to see if you need more....
Muscle aches and pains: Deep Blue applied to joints sparingly and wait a little and feel better all over.
Whip Lash: Consistent application of Deep Blue at the back and front of the neck will increase blood flow to the area and reduce inflammation and enhance rapid recovery.
PITA Relief: Emotional Relief of old "I AM Not Enough" circle rub Deep Blue on low back and clearly state "I AM Enough and I Have enough to do what makes me happy."
Feet Application for multiple conditions: After applying layers of oils for whatever conditions seal with DEEP BLUE RUB - a nice thin coat then apply cotton socks and enjoy the relief that surges thru your body.
Arthritis: Deep Blue Rub on advanced Arthritis joints - like knees and hands and then warm moist towels for a few minutes. Use Deep Blue Oil on the bottoms of feet after applying On Guard and Geranium for relief and recovery remember the cotton socks.
Use whichever format works best for you - I like the Rub for new and old muscle

pain; I like the Roll on for the hard to reach areas and dot on area sparingly, I like the 5ml. bottle for direct application of new injuries or Bone recovery.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Spritzers, Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to doTerra's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others. Next week we will cover Zendocrine.

