DTerra Essentials

Lemon
 Improves Circulation  Antiseptic  Antibacterial and Anti-inflamitory  Respiratory  Boosts Energy
Try this! Apply Lemon to canker sores, cold
sores, and warts until gone.
Peppermint
 A digestive aid that relieves stomach upset.  Boosts stamina and helps restore mental
alertness.  Peppermint is also helpful for non-disease
related pain.  Increases oxygen uptake
Try this! Apply several drops of Peppermint to
the temples, hair line, and back of neck for relief form headaches.
Lavender
 Most versatile of all known essential oils.  Calming, relaxing, mood elevating, and
balancing  Apply to the bottom of the feet for colicky
babies  Promotes restful sleep (diffuse, put a few
drops on bottom of feet, or pillowcase)  Helpful for the skin and encourages a youthful
appearance.  Ideal for burns, cuts, bruises, etc.
Try this! Apply Lavender to sunburns or other
types of burns, for quick relief.

Frankincense
 Researched and used therapeutically in European and American hospitals. (Cancer Research)
 Stimulating and elevating to the mind  Overcoming stress and depression  Anti-inflammatory  Strengthens immune system
Try this! Apply directly to acne (or other skin
conditions such as eczema) several times during the day.
Oregano
 Antibacterial  Natural Antibiotic (contains Carvicrol)  Immune enhancing antioxidant
Try this! Gargle 2 drops Oregano and 2 drops
Lemon in about 4 oz. water at the very onset of a sore throat. You may only need to do this a few times, or you can do it several times during the day. Be sure you have coconut, vegetable, or olive oil close by to rub on the corners of your mouth, as it does sting the skin. You'll be surprised how quickly your sore throat is gone!
Melaleuca
 Highly Anti-fungal  Supports immune system  Calming
Try this! Put 1 drop of Melaleuca on a cotton
ball, and put cotton ball inside ear to get rid of ear infections.

www.discoverdoterra.com

DigestZen
 Supports digestion  Excellent for any digestive issues  Constipation, diarrhea, heartburn, indigestion,
nausea, upset stomach
Try this! Rub several drops on the stomach as
often as needed until stomach upset goes away.
Deep Blue
 Relieves discomfort  Topical application
Try this! Rub a few drops on aching joints and
muscles.
On Guard
 Natural Immune Support  Anti-microbial  Use topically, internally, or diffuse
Try this! Rub a few drops of On Guard on the
bottom of the feet during cold season, or at the onset of a cold. Repeat throughout the day to get rid of colds, and diffuse in the air to get rid of the germs.
Purify
 Topical Disinfectant  Excellent for bug bites  Diffuse to kill airborne pathogens
Try this! Put 5-10 drops of Purify and water in a
squirt bottle and disinfect your countertops, add to water to clean floors, and toilets. You can add other oils as well- have fun with it and enjoy the safe and wonderful aroma as you clean!
Breathe
 Natural recovery from Colds and Flu  Respiratory Support  Cough, Asthma, Bronchitis, Congestion
Try this! Apply as often as needed to the chest to
relieve congestion and respiratory discomfort.

Citrus Bliss
 Amazing Aroma  Calming, Elevating, Eliminates odors  Strengthens immune system
Try this! Diffuse for hyperactive children.
Serenity
 Peaceful and Calming  Helps with Anxiety, Stress, Sleep  Topical Application
Try this! Inhale to reduce anxiety.
Elevation
 Uplifting and mood elevating  Aids in overcoming Depression  Hopelessness, Lack of Energy, Stress
Try this! Inhale to help with depression.
Balance
 Balances electrical energies in the body  Aids with Anxiety, Attention Deficit  Hyperactivity, Nervousness
Try this! Inhale for relaxation
Whisper
All natural compelling women's fragrance/perfume
Try this! Apply a few drops to wrist and neck, and
enjoy the amazing scent!
www.discoverdoterra.com

