Elevation
Joyful Blend
Apply over the heart, bones behind the ears, ear tissue itself, neck, thymus, temples, across the brow of the forehead, and on the wrists with an expectation of feeling good and you will. Apply on the heart reflex points. Wear as perfume around others that may need a mood lift or attitude improvement.
LAVANDIN: Anti-bacterial, far less sedative than Lavander, while having the calming aspect; Good for muscle pain and stiffness.
TANGERINE: Decongestant to the lymphatic system and is a mild diuretic; excellent as relaxer of tight muscles. Tonic and stimulant affect on stomach and liver, great for relaxing the intestines and encouraging peristalsis rhythm; de-stressor, calmative, great fragrance.
ELEMI: Think baby Frankincense; anti-depressant and sedative qualities when combined with Melissa; very effective with chest infections that produce a lot of phlegm like chronic bronchitis; Excellent in treating skin conditions especially mature skin with wrinkles and dryness; great for antistress and nerve tonic also.
LEMON MYRTLE: Anti-bacterial, anti-fungal, anti-viral respiratory relief; helps with sore muscles and growing pains; boosts the immune system; calming and sedative; has a strong, lemony aroma that is elevating and refreshing; (more lemony than lemon).
MELISSA: Soothing both to the body and the mind; anti-depressant (chases away black thoughts), mood lifter, anti-viral ­ even old viruses hanging out in body get eliminated with consistent use; calms over rapid breathing and heartbeat; uplifting lemony aroma.
YLANG YLANG: Lowers high blood pressure, mood enhancer, calmative during season changes; slow down rapid heartbeat (tachycardia) and over-rapid breathing; releases pressure of heavy anger- especially if used as rage begins to assist in persona l control. It brings back the feeling of self-confidence and personal appreciation and cracks open door on JOY.
OSMANTHUS: Amazing rich fragrance that lifts everyone's spirits; kind to dry skin and Silky in nature; when combined with Sandalwood the overall fragrance has more staying power.
SANDALWOOD: Antibacterial, anti-infectious, pulmonary antiseptic, sore throat and respiratory recovery by application to throat and chest, UTI infection relief, can be sedative; extremely kind to all Skin types and healing of skin issues; inspires self belief and "can do" attitude; mind tonic and brain detox to help with cloudy mind; supports harmony of the emotions and eases nervous tension.
Protocols: Suggestions presented here are effective and safe only with dTERRA's CPTG oils!

DIFFUSE: 4-6 drops Elevation Oil in Lotus diffuser - relieves depression, lifts spirits, helps with decision making, optimism is inspired, self worth is enhanced, ability to see a resolution for problems is easier; helps recover sinus infections, asthmatic stress relieved, lung infections, Bronchitis relief, tuberculosis cough relief, allergy throat,
Massage oil blend: 2 ounces of Fractionated Coconut Oil and 8 drops of Elevation ­ massage all over and enjoy Uplifting experience, lighting the muscles and the shoulders.
Mood Lifting Bath: ½ cup Epsom Salts, 4-6 drops Elevation oil added to Epsom salts and then add hot water and stir; relax in hot tub for 10 minutes, pat dry ­ enjoy relief
Subtle Mood Lifting Technique: When taking underwear from dryer apply Elevation around the inside rim liberally, fold normally and place in drawer of intended good feeling person. The fragrance will dissipate but the vibration will be released into person as the day goes on and they will be nicer to themselves and others as more "elevated' pairs are worn day after day. Can also apply to edges of crew neck t-shirts or inside of thick socks.
OFFICE CRAB: On tissue taped under desk of crab---4-6 drops of Elevation renewed each morning about ½ hour before the CRAB arrives. Amazing changes happen while you enjoy fragrance.
Love Letters: If sending Snail Mail love letters apply Elevation to the corners of the letter prior to stuffing in the envelope and then let the frequency of this rare blend work for you when the other person receives your good intentions.
MOOD MATRIX: PowerPoint available in your dTERRA virtual office in the Business Tools section.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to dTerra's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others. The oil for next week will be Cinnamon.

