MOST FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS ABOUT ESSENTIAL OILS
1. How do I learn to use essential oils? All of the oils are antiviral and antiseptic, some are just more effective on certain ailments than others. You have the following resources to guide you: a. The DTerra Essential Oils Pocket Guide b. DTerra Trainings with Dr. Hill or other company representatives c. Other experienced oil users, including your DTerra organization leaders d. Educational Books, websites, etc. (there are many)
2. How often can I apply the oils? There is really no set rule for how often to apply the oils. You have to make a mental shift from how we view using western medicine. For many of the things you will use the oils for, a couple of times a day is probably adequate to see results. However, other problems may require more frequent application.***
3. How do I know where to apply the oils? The sole of the foot is a good place to start. Applying oils to the feet helps absorb into the system better than almost anywhere else. However, often it is better to apply to the area that is affected. For example, if you have digestion problems, apply the oils to the stomach, for a headache, apply the oils on the temple and hairline, for minor scrapes and cuts apply the right oil directly to the injured area. Keep oils away from eyes and ear canals.
4. What combinations of oils are good to diffuse together, how do I know which oils to diffuse together? The more you use the oils, the more comfortable you will be with which oils make good combinations. There isn't really a bad choice. Start with combining a peppermint with a lemon or another citrus oil. As you evaluate the results you are hoping for, combine oils that will help you get the overall results. If someone has a cold, you may want to try Breathe or Eucalyptus, if you need a more calming environment, use the Calming blend. As a general rule, when you are diffusing a blend, do not mix it with other oils.
5. Are there any oils that are not advisable to use together?**** 6. Is it safe to use oils while taking other over the counter cold medicines?
You may find that the oils are actually more effective than many of the OTC medicines, and may not need to use your OTC medicines.**** 7. Can I overdose on the oils, like I can with medicines? How do I know if I am using too much, or applying too often? Moderation in all things is a true principle. While the vast majority of essential oils can be used freely, there are a few that contain compounds that could be toxic at higher dosages (Wintergreen, Idaho Tansy, Hyssop would be examples). 8. Are the oils safe to use on my children? Are they safe to use if I am pregnant?

There are some of the oils that you need to use with extra precautions on children or if you are pregnant. Consult the Quick Reference Guide for a list of oils you may want to avoid. 9. Do I have to dilute the oils before applying them topically? Dilution is not required for most people. However, each person's skin is different, and each person's tolerance or sensitivity to the oils will vary. Some oils are very mild, like lavender, and can be applied without dilution on most people. However, lemongrass and oregano will probably require some dilution. Start out by diluting the oils, or by applying a small amount to the wrist. If it begins burning, apply a carrier oil to help dilute it. Dilution is a good practice for young children. 10.When applying multiple oils, do I need to wait between applying each oil, or can I apply one immediately after the other one? You do not need to wait between application of the different oils, they can be applied immediately on top of each other. 11.What is a diffuser and how does it work? DTerra's exclusive essential oil diffuser uses highly efficient real time ultrasonic atomization technology to effectively diffuse our essential oils into the air. The essential oils are atomized into minute ion particles and active oxygen anions, which are more easily absorbed by the human body than conventional thermal diffusers.
The DTerra Lotus diffuser uses modern air purification technologies such as nanosilver filtration, cold catalyst filtration, active carbon filtration, electrostatic filtration, and so on. This ensures that the active ingredients in our essential oils are completely discharged allowing it to naturally release the full efficacy of the oils aroma-therapeutic effect. The atomized moisture contained in the mist also helps skin retain its moisture and is especially suited for air conditioned rooms and dry environments. 12.What is the difference between DTerra Essential Oils and Health Food or other retail store brands?
DTerra provides Certified Therapeutic GradeTM (CTGTM) essential oils. Most essential oils found in health food stores are not Therapeutic Grade. There are four grades of essential oils - 1) Grade A essential oils are pure therapeutic quality (highest grade) and are usually made from naturally (often organically) grown plants distilled at the proper temperatures using steam distillation. This is the category that all of DTerra's essential oils and essential oil-enhanced products are in. Gas Chronometer and Mass Spectrometry (GCMS) testing standards will be used to "Certify" the highest quality standards in the industry, meeting or exceeding ISO and AFNOR standards.

The other categories of essential oils (for reference) are as follows: 2) Grade B essential oils are food grade; they may contain synthetics, pesticides, fertilizers, chemical/synthetic extenders, or carrier oils. 3) Grade C oils are perfume grade and may contain the same type of adulterating chemicals as food grade oils. They also usually contain solvents which are used to gain a higher yield of oil. 4) Floral Water is a byproduct of the distillation process and can be very high quality if it comes from a Grade A distillation process. Accordingly it is of very low quality if it comes from poor quality raw materials and/or poor distillation processes.

