Fennel (Sweet)
Deep Cleansing, Purifying and Revitalizing
Caution: Best used after pregnancy is completed and avoid if seizure disorders have happened!
Fennel is a hardy biennial or perennial herb, growing to a height of two meters (six feet), with fine, feathery leaves and umbels of golden-yellow flowers. The essential oil is produced from the crushed seeds. The use of Fennel as an herb stretches back to antiquity, featuring in the culinary and medical arts of Ancient Egypt, Greece, Rome and India, as well as in Anglo-Saxon Cookery. Fennel (sweet) has clean, sweet, aniseed top notes and earthy, spicy, peppery undertones. It blends well with Geranium, Lavender, Black Pepper, Rosemary, Sandalwood, Frankincense and Lemon.
Fennel is: Analgesic, anti-infectious, anti-parasitic, antispasmodic, antiseptic, aperitive, carminative (settles digestion), depurative(purifies and cleanses the blood), cholagogic (stimulates the flow of bile from the gall bladder into the intestines), digestive stimulant, diuretic, emmenagogic (promotes and regulates menstruation), expectorant, lactogenic, oestrogen-like, expectorant, splenic, stomatic, relieves colic, indigestion and excessive gas. Fennel has a tonic effect on the smooth muscle of the intestine, which is valuable in colitis, and in some cases of constipation, as it strengthens peristalisis (the rhythmic contractions of the intestinal muscles which move the partially-digested food mass through the intestines).
Fennel is a good urinary-tract antiseptic, excellent for alleviating flatulence and digestive problems, local massage combined with drinking Fennel Tea is recommended. Fennel is very supportive of the respiratory system in that it can relieve coughs and nervous asthma. Fennel helps eliminate water retention issues, cellulite and obesity if enough water is consumed on a regular basis (both apply topically and ingest with Tea several times a day) - makes happy Kidneys and Spleen.
Fennel is very effective in assisting in counterbalancing alcoholic poisoning, and it has played an important part in the treatment and rehabilitation of alcoholics. It also can be helpful with gout, arthritis, etc. to prevent the build-up of toxic wastes in the body, which precede the inflammatory condition of the joints. Fennel can also be helpful in reducing appetite between meals or when working thru recovering from an addiction. Excellent in reducing unwanted waste collected in pockets within the body and with Cellulite gatherings.

Dr. D. Hill shared his enthusiasm for Sweet Fennel at the convention (2011) in letting us know that our Sweet Fennel has compounds that are anti-inflammatory, anticarcinogestic, positive hormone activity within the body to support hormonal balance male and female - amazing positive support for gastro-intestinal and urinary tract systems.
Psychologically, Fennel is protecting, warming and grounding. A few drops rubbed between the palms of the hand and inhaling has an amazing positive effect inside and out. Fennel is suited to the type of person who tends to over think and over-analyze. While they may easily generate concepts and ideas, they rarely communicate them or put them in practice, finding it difficult to articulate and express themselves, feelings, too tend to churn within. The more such emotions are locked inside, the more they intensify, building up tension that affects the bowels. The unacceptable, unexpressed thoughts and emotions that are pushed below consciousness accumulate in the intestines as nervous spasm and gas. Fennel encourages us to express ourselves through the mouth rather then through the bottom! Freeing the feelings that have stagnated and putrefied, clearing the plethora of a congested mind, the oil invites us to communicate freely, without fear or inhibition. By unlocking our capacity for confident self-expression, Fennel Oil releases our urge to create. It helps us to find, like oil of Ginger, productive outlets for the active mind.
Fennel is one of the plants that has been known for thousands of years for its effects on the female reproductive system. It now seems probable that this is due to a plant hormone - a form of oestrogen - in its structure. It can help to regularize the menstrual cycle, particularly where periods are scanty and painful, with cramping pains. It has been found to reduce symptoms of pre-menstrual stress, and also the water retention, which many women experience in the few days before menstruation is due. It is useful at the menopause in reducing the unpleasant symptoms caused by wildly fluctuating hormone levels, and it stimulates the production of oestrogen by the adrenal glands after the ovaries have stopped functioning. Oestrogen is needed by everyone, both men and women, to maintain muscle tone, elasticity of the skin and connective tissue, a healthy circulation and strong bones; so maintaining the supply can postpone some of the degenerative effects of ageing. Another possible hormonal effect of Fennel is to increase the flow of milk in nursing mothers.

Protocols:
Creativity Diffuser Blend: Fennel 10 drops, Ylang Ylang 4 drops, Coriander 12 drops, Wild Orange 15 drops, White Fir 6 drops; gently blend and then add 4-6 drops to your lotus diffuser.
Cellulite Massage: Fennel 6 drops, Coconut oil 10 drops - make blend and massage into areas of skin where Cellulite may have collected unwanted wastes - twice a day while focused on eliminating weight and changing eating habits...
Cellulite Massage: Fennel oil 2 drops, Rosemary 2 drops, Cypress 2 drops, Lemon 4 drops, Patchouli 1 drop; gently blend and apply to sides of thighs in upward motion am and pm.
PMS Body Oil: 4 ounces of coconut oil, Fennel 5 drops, Ylang Ylang 4 drops, Clary Sage 5 drops, Roman Chamomile 6 drops, Lime 4 drops, Coriander 5 drops; gently blend together and massage the oil over your body daily, as needed.
Cycle-Regulating Oil: 2 ounces of coconut oil, Fennel 3 drops, Vetiver 2 drops, Rose 2 drops, White Fir 4 drops, Clary Sage 6 drops, 6 Roman Chamomile; gently blend and massage the oil into your skin daily - backs of the ankles, wrists, low back or over tummy.
Cycle Regulating Bath Oil: 1/2 cup of Epsom Salts, Fennel 2 drops, Coriander 2 drops, Geranium 3 drops, Clary Sage 3 drops; add oils to Epsom Salts and then into bath water - soak for 15 minutes and pat dry.
Menopause Balancing Bath: 1/2 cup of Epsom Salts, Fennel 1 drops, Geranium 1 drop, Clary Sage 2 drops, Roman Chamomile 2 drops; mix oils into bath salts and then into bath water-soak 15 minutes.
Cramp Relief Bath: 1/2 cup of Epsom Salts, Fennel 2 drops, Rose Oil 1 drop, Ylang Ylang 3 drops, Marjoram 2 drops; gently blend oils into Epsom Salts and then into bath water --soak for 15.
Menopause-Balancing Body Oil: 2 ounces coconut oil, Fennel oil 2 drops, Patchouli 2 drops, Coriander 2 drops, Wild Orange 4, Geranium 4 drops, Clary Sage 5 drops, Lime 2 drops; Apply mixture over your entire body, especially over the bloated areas.
Weight-Loss Inhalant: Fennel 6 drops, Ginger 3 drops, Rosemary 2 drops, Black Pepper 1 drop; gently blend and pour onto wick and seal inhaler and use when want to reduce cravings.

Appetite-Suppressing Inhalant: Fennel 6 drops, Bergamot 9 drops, Patchouli 6 drops; gently blend and add to wick and seal the inhaler and use to reduce cravings and stretch time between meals.
Courage Boosting Blend: 1 tablespoon coconut oil, Fennel 3 drops, Thyme 4 drops, Black Pepper 1 drop, Ginger 1 drop; gently blend and apply to bones behind the ears and the backs of the knees.
Appetite-Suppressing Stomach Rub: 2 ounces of coconut oil, Fennel 8 drops, Patchouli 4 drops, Grapefruit 5 drops; gently blend and apply to tummy.
SPECIAL REQUEST FROM CONVENTION
LYME DISEASE: Dr. David Hill recommends Oregano 3 drops, Cassia 3 drops, On Guard 3 drops-3 times a day in a capsule for 3 weeks then Oregano 3 drops, Cinnamon 3 drops, On Guard 3 drops - 3 times a day for 3 weeks then rotate back until symptoms are relieved for 2 weeks consistently then back down to 2 times a day for 2 weeks; then 1 time a day for a week. Dr.Hill suggested that being on the Lifelong Vitality Pack, Zendocrine capsules, Terrazyme, GX Assist and PB Assist+ along with reducing white flour and white sugar food and products would enhance the recovery in each area of the body.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Inhalers, Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to doTerra's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others. The oil next week will be the blend of Deep Blue.

