FRANKINCENSE
BOSWELLIA FREREANA
Calming, Revitalizing and Uplifting-- When in doubt start with Frankincense. Good for children, seniors, elderly, pregnancy, transitions and enlightenment.
Dr. David K. Hill has a book on Frankincense available thru www.aromatools.com and see webinars on www.builddoterra.com Dr. Hill has created on Frankincense for our education.
FRANKINCENSE is also known as olibanum, and is a small, shrubby tree with white flowers. Incisions in the bark produce a milky-white resin that hardens into orange-brown "tears," and the essential oil is steam-distilled from these "tears" of hardened resin. Frankincense has fresh, citrus, turpentine top notes and sweet, warms, balsamic, camphoraceous, wood-smoke undertones. It blends well with most floral, woods, spices and citruses, also with patchouli, clary sage, rosemary, basil, vetiver and my favorite mix is with Wild Orange - protector on several levels.
Research shows traditional use of Frankincense in driving away evil spirits (Egyptians, Greeks, Romans, French, Asian folklore and rituals), and if we think of these spirits as obsessions, fears and anxieties which may have become manifest as physical illness, we understand the benefits of applying Frankincense for all occasions.
FRANKINCENSE: analgesic, anti-bacterial, anti-inflammatory, antiseptic, antidepressant, astringent, carminative (relieves gas), cicatrizant, cytophylatic (stimulating regeneration of cells), digestive, diuretic, expectorant, sedative, immune boosting tonic, anti-carcinogistic.
Frankincense is the most valuable essential oil for slowing and deepening breathing, helping to allay fear, anxiety, nervous tension and stress. It literally smells divine, and was traditionally burned as an offering to the gods. Useful in massage and bath oils, Frankincense is also good in inhalation, diffusers and mood blends. It counteracts respiratory problems and is useful in treating colds, bronchitis, asthma, coughs and sore throats.
Frankincense has been documented all over the world to have a very strong Cancer deterrent factor --Nicole Stevens has produced current research on effectiveness of essential oils with eliminating cancer and is published - available www.aromatools.com. Dr. Hsueh-Kung Lin, published his research on doTERRA's Frankincense clearly stating that in eliminating many forms of cancerous cells this is the most potent and effective oil he has had the privilege of working with - the fragrance made him more energetic too. One of the gifts of Frankincense is its' chemistry - sesquiterpenes--can cross the Blood Brain Barrier (BBB) and facilitates oxygenation of cells for optimal

communication at the cellular level. In a study that has already triggered followup work, sesquiterpenes were shown to increase the number of certain receptors in the brain and are now considered prospects for treatment of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia.* (Frankincense, Sandalwood, Valerian, Myrrh, Vetiver research) Skin treated with the sesquiterpenes allows polar compounds such as water to penetrate more effectively.
Frankincense has profound psychological and spiritual benefits, long recognized by religious and spiritual traditions the world over. Its centering effect allows one to focus clearly and is an ideal aid to meditation, contemplation, and prayer, ceasing mental chatter and stilling the mind. Facilitating a state of single-pointed concentration, it allows the Spirit to Soar. Helpful in allowing the past to be in the past, and creating an environment in which optimism and an expectation of freedom in dwelling on current successes that allow peace and self-acceptance to take place.
In skincare, Frankincense is particularly helpful for older skins, and has a definite tonic effect, helping to restore some tone to slack looking facial skin, and slowing down the appearance of wrinkles. Frankincense is safe to use during pregnancy.
*Elisabetsky,E., 1997 Anti convulsive proper.. Erreira,F., Santos, M.S. Faro, C., Pires, E., Carvalho, A.P., Cunha, P.A.,Macedo, T., 1996...
All suggestions shared are effective only with doTERRA CPTG products!
Clearing Blend: Frankincense 3 drops, Wild Orange 3 drops; blend in palm of hands by rubbing palms together and when warm apply to back of neck and forehead and focus on accepting positive thoughts and personal courage to be aware of goodness in self and those around you - also inhale from warm hands relaxes chest and makes the Heart Happy.
Birth: Frankincense - for new mom - on chest and neck - at birth on the head of newborn and chest - also on umbilical - extraordinary positive experience in supporting the adjustment of being brought out into the world from warmth and rhythm of mom, and supports but physical and emotional support of changes for new mom.
End of Life Care: Frankincense diffused 15 minutes each hour in room of Hospice patient helps with breathing, clarity and emotional well being of patient... Supports family and friends in keeping priorities clear and emotions balanced in passing stages. Allows mind of patient to be more clear even when on heavy pain medication ­ applying Frankincense to throat, neck and chest relieves anxiety and helps with simple expressions of love and appreciation...also allows person to keep fluids down and when Frankincense is mixed with lemon oil is great for relief of mouth thickness and mucous that can gather in throat, and relieve mouth sores that can happen. (Use big Q-tip or gentle spritzer).

Anti-Depression Diffuser Blend: Frankincense 8 drops, Ylang Ylang 3 drops, Clary Sage 6 drops, Wild Orange 10 drops, White Fir 8 drops, Geranium 15 drops, Lavender 15 drops; gently blend and add 4-6 frops to Lotus Diffuser and run 15 minutes every two hours.
Instant Mind Clarity: Frankincense 3 drops in palm of hand, rub hands together to make warm, hold hands around nose and mouth - and inhale deeply three times and allow the body to process for 3 minutes.
Cut and Wound Healing Oil Blend: Coconut oil 2 tablespoons, Frankincense 6 drops, Melaleuca 7 drops, Cypress 4 drops, Helichrysum 3 drops, Myrrh 2 drops, Sandalwood 1 drop; add oils to the coconut oil and blend gently and after cleaning a cut or wound, apply this mixture to the affected area. Repeat application several times daily as needed.
Scar Massage Oil: Coconut oil 2 tablespoons, Wheat germ oil 10 drops, Flaxseed oil 2 tablespoons, Frankincense 5 drops, Geranium 3 drops, Patchouli 3 drops, Wild Orange 6 drops, Sandalwood 2 drops, Cypress 3 drops, Roman Chamomile 2 drops; gently mix ingredients and apply over new recovering wound or old scar 3-4 times a day.
Cold and Flu Chest Rub: Coconut Oil 2 tablespoons, Frankincense 4 drops, Thyme 1 drop, Oregano 1 drop, Ginger 1 drop, Eucalyptus 2 drops, Cypress 2 drops, White Fir 1 drop; gently blend and apply along the sternum in an upward motion several times a day to relieve congestion and tightness in chest and ease breathing.
All-Purpose Diffuser Breathing Blend: Frankincense 6 drops, Myrrh 8 drops, Cypress 8 drops, White Fir 4 drops, Thyme 8 drops, Eucalyptus 12 drops, Lemon 10 drops, Roman Chamomile 3 drops; gently blend and put 6-8 drops into Lotus Diffuser 15 minutes every hour.
Alzheimer's Disease/Brain mysteries: Frankincense inside and out - diffuse, apply to the bridge of the nose, forehead, back of the neck, inside of the forearms, in capsules before meals and deep breathing techniques several times a day - sometimes surprises occur - mental clarity happens in spurts and gaps treasure it - just inhaling this remarkable Frankincense can reduce disorientation and help with long term memory loss.
Parkinsons's Relief: Frankincense - diffuse 10 minutes each hour in home and in room of client, apply to spine with coconut oil each morning and use the Aroma Touch Technique twice a week to enhance communication of the nervous system.
Flow-Minimizing Bath: 1/4 cup Epsom Salts, Cypress Oil 2

drops, Frankincense 1 drop, Geranium 1 drop, Rose Oil 1 drop... Add the oils to the Epsom Salts and then mix into a very warm bath and soak for 20 minutes.
Letting Go Personal Blend: Coconut oil 1 tablespoon, Frankincense 4 drops, Myrrh 3 drops, Rose 2 drops, Black Pepper 2 drops, Helichrysum 2 drops; gently mix the oils into the coconut oil and then can be used to apply behind the ears, or inhale deeply from the bottle and expect to feel differently and express appreciation for your own gifts and talents in cooperation with the Boss.
Meditation Diffuser Blend: Sandalwood 20 drops, Elevation 14 drops, Frankincense 9 drops, Myrrh 6 drops, Vetiver 7 oils, Lime 5 drops; mix gently and add 4-6 drops to your Lotus Diffuser... let run for 15 minutes prior to start meditation and breathe in three deep breathes before starting.
Support Emotional Transition: Coconut Oil 1 tablespoon, Frankincense 5 drops, Myrrh 4 drops, Clary Sage 2 drops, Patchouli 2 drops, Lemon 1 drop; gently blend oils into coconut oil and apply to wrists, on the bones behind the ears and breathe deeply from hands after rubbed together with a few drops; expect to feel courage and enjoy new freedom.
Anxiety Relieving Blend: Frankincense 2 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Geranium 3 drops, Clary Sage 3 drops, Wild Orange 2 drops; gently mix and inhale - apply to back of neck and enjoy.
Bell's Palsy: Frankincense applied directly to area of muscular weakness or tingling often during the day - rub on hands and inhale and focus on expectation of rapid recovery and accept that you have the power to manage your happiness Now! yes, this will be effective even after a long period of time with condition. Can add Myrrh at 1:1 ratio to support brain activity recovery faster use the DoTerra's moisture cream on top of Frankincenseand/blend with Myrrh to whole face to keep youthful enhancement (DNA re-education of cells for youth) happening on full face.
Nerve Soothing Personal Blend: Coconut Oil 1 tablespoon, Frankincense 4 drops, Clary Sage 3 drops, Melissa 3 drops, Vetiver 2 drops, Lemon 2 drops; gently blend and diffuse, apply behind the ears and on the wrists to keep calm.
Impatience/Irritability Eliminator Personal Blend: Coconut Oil 1 Tablespoon, Frankincense 2 drops, Lavender 4 drops, Geranium 4 drops, Clary Sage 3 drops; gently blend and apply or inhale often to keep self calm and focused.
Dry Skin/Wrinkles on arms and legs: Blend Frankincense with DoTerra's Essential Therapy Hand and Body Lotion and apply to dry areas - especially when going in and out in the cold weather - drink more water to hydrate cells keep young.

--pick up small salve conatiners from www.aromatools.com to blend Hand and Body Lotion with different oils to give as gifts already prepared for stocking stuffers and Hostess gifts--
Rash Recovery: Frankincense applied directly on recovering area then apply the Hand and Body Lotion right on top to keep Frankincense penetrating dry skin and keep areas moist for rapid recovery with no scaring.
Rash Recovery: Frankincense applied directly on recovering area then apply the extraordinary "Healing Hands Lotion with Bulgarian Rose CPTG Essential Oil" on the area. This will be very soothing and deep healing physically and emotionally.
Relieve Persistent Sense of Loss: Frankincense 2 drops, Rose 1 drop, Cypress 4 drops, gently blend and apply to back of neck and over the heart 2 times a day.
Relieve Over-attachment: Frankincense 4 drops, Myrrh 3 drops, Cypress 3 drops, gently blend and apply on front of throat down the sternum and on the wrists and allow obsession to settle to healthy interest.
Self-Promise Supporter: Frankincense 3 drops, Melissa 2 drops, Bergamot 3 gently blend and clearly state (declare) present positive intention - like "Everything I put into my mouth is for my extraordinary good Health"... "I trust myself to process my feelings honestly and live guilt free." Apply to back of neck while dwelling on intention, apply to wrists while dwelling on intention and breathe in from hands made warm by rubbing together.
Relieve Restless and Distracted Thoughts: Frankincense 3 drops, Geranium 2 drops; gently blend and apply to the back of the neck and inhale and allow mind to clear and focus on project in front of person.
Relieve Over-Preoccupied with Detail: Frankincense 3 drops, Vetiver 2 drops, Lemon 1 drop; gently blend and apply to hands and thoroughly rub in to the joints of the fingers and wrists - and then inhale and allow mind to go to general as opposed to specific - "Everything in my life is working out smoothly".. Less judgmental.
Dry Hair: Frankincense 4 drops, Lavender 4 drops put into spritzer and brush thru hair and leave on for at least 20 minutes with head wrapped in cotton towel -before shampooing with doTERRA's Shampoo and Conditioner.
Broken Bones: Mix Frankincense and White Fir 1:1, rub directly on bone that is injured. If you can't get to the bone because of cast, bandage, etc., rub on the opposite arm, leg, knee, etc. and the injured bone will receive 65% of the benefit. This is called Sympathetic Response. The body understands where the essential oil is needed and will send the recovering bone what's needed.

Frankincense is an amazing gift, it helps the cells of our body's remember how to be perfect again as our original DNA/RNA recipe was written. Frankincense seems to be the master mind of oils - it makes everything remember how to be perfect - the cells, the tissues, the organs, the systems, whole body - even our minds and hearts if we allow cooperation with mother nature. Diffuse, Ingest, Apply, use in suppositories for direct delivery to areas of concern, blend with our lotions and creams and apply for reclaiming youth, spritz in groups and crowds to raise the level of optimism within a crowd or holiday gathering; use in blends for enhancing clarity, attitude, de-toxing mentally and physically, boost the immune system even in the auto-immune diseases as Frankincense is the SMART oilhelps with Crohn's and digestive diseases, Heart disorders of all kinds, liver concerns and rejuvenating new cells, cirrhosis recovery, quantum healing for entire body - Frankincense is good for everything.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Respectfully researched and presented for sharing on by Dr. Susan Lawton, 2011.- questions for the next oil may be submitted to slawton1@optonline.net - no personal reply will happen but if the question asked is appropriate info for many people we will cover at the end of the next oil week. Our next oil will be Solace Blend.

