Geranium
Pelargonium graveolens
Balancing, Uplifting, Refreshing!
Geranium is an aromatic, perennial, hairy plant with serrated leaves and flowers varying from light pink through to deep rose, magenta or red. Geranium essential oil is obtained by steam distillation from the flowers, leaves, and stalks. The oil is a beautiful, pale green in color, and the odor can also be described as green. It is sometimes described as resembling Rose oil, though a sensitive nose would never confuse the two. It mixes well with Bergamot, Basil, Rosemary, Rose, Wild Orange, Sandalwood, Lemon, Patchouli and Lavender.
Geranium: Analgesic, antidepressant, antibacterial, anti-infectious, antiseptic, astringent, deodorant, gentle diuretic, haemostatic (it stops bleeding), tonic for the liver and kidneys, (kidney stone break up), relieves premenstrual tension, UTI (Urinary Tract Infection) relief; is a general stimulant so use carefully after 6 pm (may keep you too alert to sleep). Dr. Valnet spoke highly of Geranium as an anti cancer agent for some of the early identified cancers (Breast, Prostate, Lung) tumor based. Also for dry coughs tonsillitis and respiratory issues. Nicole Stevens' research reported that Geranium proved effective in inhibiting the activity of cervical cancer cells.
Geranium has been reported to reduce the symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome and candidiasis (single-celled fungus). Improves immune system and is helpful as a stimulant for both lymphatic and circulatory systems.
Geranium is a great balancer, due to it being an adrenal cortex stimulant, and helps regulate moods. Great for women having trouble getting pregnant and for symptoms of menopause because of its ability to support hormone balance. It is one of the most useful essential oils to help eliminate cellulite. Geranium is often included in lymphatic drainage massage blends.
Menopause occurs for most women in their late forties and early fifties. Some women are relatively symptom-free, but many suffer from excessively heavy periods, hot flashes, depression and insomnia. Geranium is a hormonal balancer, while Rose tones and cleanses the uterus, and Cypress helps to relieve excessive menstrual flow. These oils can be used in massage, as well as in baths and as hot compresses over the abdomen.
Everything shared here is about and with dTERRA CPTG Essential Oils
Emotionally speaking, Geranium creates a sense of security and comfort, and is gently uplifting and balancing. Geranium oil encourages self-expression, increases confidence, and helps overcome the fear of speaking, particularly in public. It promotes harmony in male-female relationships by balancing aggressive and passive tendencies and by improving intimate communication. It liberates creativity, revitalizes imagination, and invites spontaneity. Geranium has been effective with high anxiety prone individuals to bring them into balance and harmony. It lifts general sadness just by inhaling or wearing as a perfume. For some

individuals, Geranium has proven effective with blood pressure issues ­ both having the ability to raise or lower blood pressure a few points.
Geranium is effective in working with skin issues: Relieves inflammation, eczema, acne, burns, infected wounds, ringworm, lice, shingles and herpes blisters. Excellent for regeneration of skin cells and great for retarding the development of scar tissue so after burns or deep cuts use Geranium with Lavender to promote healing without scaring; great for our varicose vein blends and relief of broken capillaries.
Geranium has been given historical credit for healing bones of breaks, infections and wounds of all kinds.
Geranium Oil in Folklore considered a protection fragrance and oil ­ that is why so many Europeans kept them in window boxes ­to ward off evil from homes.
Geranium Tea: A few drops in honey or agave then add hot water (not boiling) will soothe diarrhea and slow or stop internal bleeding.
Geranium is great for Oily and Dry skin types both.
Geranium is excellent for dry cough ­ apply to outside of throat and inhale.
CAUTION: Geranium oil can lower your blood sugar level. Use it (internally) with caution if you have hypoglycemia or low blood sugar.
Scar Tissue Healing: 4 teaspoons of Fractionated Coconut Oil, Geranium 4 drops, Lavender 4 drops, Patchouli 3 drops, and White Fir 3 drops. Apply over area several times a day.
Hormone Help Inhalant: Geranium 3 drops, Rose 1 drop, and Fractionated Coconut 6 drops. Mix and soak wick in gently mixed solution and put in inhaler (purchase from aromatools.com). Quick-Fix Anxiety Inhalant: Geranium 2 drops, Myrrh 2 drops, Ylang Ylang 2 drops, Frankincense 3 drops, and Vetiver 1 drop.
Menopause-Balancing Bath: Geranium 2 drops, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Clary Sage 2 drops, Coriander 1 drop into ½ cup Epsom salts in bottom of dry bathtub. Add very hot water, stir until dissolved and then make comfortable to soak and inhale.
Cramp Relief Bath: Geranium oil 3 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Ylang, Ylang 2 drops, Coriander 1 drop, and Rose 1 drop.
Cycle-Regulating Bath: Geranium 3 drops, Clary Sage 2 drops, Coriander 1 drop, Marjoram 1.
Varicose vein Bath: Geranium 2 drops, Cypress 2 drops, Lemon 2 drops, and Peppermint 1 drop.

Calming Diffuser Blend: Lavender, Roman Chamomile, Geranium, Clary Sage, and Ylang Ylang .
Cool Flash Spray: 8 ounces of distilled water, Geranium 2 drops, Clary Sage 2 drops, Patchouli 1 drop, and Peppermint 1 drop. Put the ¼ teaspoon of Epsom salts in the spray bottle; add oils and then water, screw on spritzer (aromatools.com). Spritz yourself when you feel a hot flash coming on.
Cool-Down Compress Blend: Geranium 3 drops, Patchouli 3 drops, Wild Orange 4 drops, Roman Chamomile 6 drops, Clary Sage 6 drops, and Lavender 4 drops. Add 2 drops of the essential oils to a small glass bottle with ¼ teaspoon of Epsom salts, then add 1 quart of cool water. Gently shake and soak a clean cloth in the water and apply it to your face, forehead, wrists, and back of your neck or other areas of your body (even soak your feet in water) to prevent or cool down hot flashes. Keep compress away from your eyes ­ will smart.
Cramp Soothing Compress: Geranium, Roman Chamomile, Helichrysum, Marjoram and Basil ­ 1 drop each--apply to abdomen.
Flow Minimizing Oil: Coconut oil 2 ounces, Geranium 4 drops, Cypress 6 drops, Frankincense 3 drops, Lime 1 drop. Shake gently and massage the blend frequently over your abdomen and low back, beginning if possible, before the onset of your period.
Energizing Body Oil Blend: 2 ounces of Fractionated Coconut Oil, Geranium 3 drops, Lemon 3 drops, Rosemary 3 drops, and Patchouli 1 drop.
Letting Go Personal Blend: 1/8 ounce Fractionated Coconut Oil, Geranium 3 drops, Frankincense 3 drops, Myrrh 2 drops, Rose Oil 2 drops, and Helichrysum 1 drop.
Stimulating Blend that also increases Mental Clarity: Rosemary 10 drops, Lemon 10 drops, Geranium 10 drops, Coriander 5 drops, White Fir 4 drops, Clove 5 drops, and Basil 5 drops.
To affect a shift from an Over-analytical & detached attitude: Geranium 3 drops, Sandalwood 2 drops, and Patchouli 1 drop.
For Relief of Sudden Fear, Especially at Night: Geranium 2 drops, Vetiver 2 drops, and Rose 1 drop.
For Relief of a Restless and Distracted State of Mind: Geranium 2 drops and Frankincense 3 drops.
Massage blends (remember to drink lots of water when detoxifying and deep cleansing with dTERRA CPTG Essential oils): mix in to 4 Teaspoons of Fractionated Coconut Oil.
Detoxifying and stimulating: Geranium 6 drops, Lemon 5 drops, and Peppermint 3 drops. OR

Geranium 4 drops, Rosemary 4 drops, and Patchouli 3 drops
Calming and Relaxing Massage Blends: Geranium 3 drops, Wild Orange 5 drops, and Ylang Ylang 3 drops OR Geranium 2 drops, Lavender 5 drops, and Wild Orange 4 drops OR Geranium 2 drops, White Fir 3 drops, Lavender 4 drops
Immune-Boosting Massage oil: Fractionated Coconut Oil 4 teaspoons, Geranium 4 drops, Wild Orange 4 drops, Lemon 2 drops, White Fir 2 drops, Frankincense 2 drops, and Myrrh 1 drop.
Varicose Vein Massage Oil: Fractionated Coconut Oil 4 teaspoons, Geranium 2 drops, Cypress 3 drops, Patchouli 2 drops, Rosemary 2 drops...Start with the ankles and gently massage upward motion to above knees 2 -3 times a day.
Sore Throat Massage Oil: Fractionated Coconut Oil 4 teaspoons, Geranium 3 drops, Eucalyptus 2 drops, Lavender 2 drops, Thyme 1 drop. Gently massage the mixture over your neck and throat to soothe throat and swollen glands. Candida Immune-Boosting Body Oil: 4 Ounces of Coconut Oil, Geranium 4 drops, White Fir 6 drops, Frankincense 3 drops, Thyme 3 drops, Patchouli 2 drops, and Melaleuca 3 drops. Massage into skin several times a day ­ apply to bottoms of feet in the evening and put on thick cotton socks.
Geranium is an insecticide, due to its terpene content, and is a very good mosquito repellent that will only improve the skin as opposed to irritate the surface like OTC repellents.
Resources we use on a regular basis:
Essential Oils Reference Guide, R.L. James, 2009 Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of the Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle, RN, PhD. 2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy for Healing the Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 The Aromatherapy Bible, Gill Farrer-Halls, 20005 Published research on Essential Oils and Cancer, Nicole Stevens, 2008, 2009 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, and Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Thank you for your sharing with others.

