GINGER
(ZINGIBER OFFICINALE)
Warming, Comforting and Fortifying
Caution: do not use undiluted if you have very sensitive skin.
GINGER is a perennial, topical herb with reed-like leaves, white or yellow flowers and a thick tuberous Rhizome root. The essential oil is steam-distilled from the unpeeled, dried, ground root.
GINGER has sharp, green top notes and fiery, woody sweet, spicy undertones. It blends well with the Citruses, and also with Wild Orange, Geranium, Ylang-Ylang, Rose, Frankincense, Sandalwood, Vetiver, Patchouli, Fennel, Bergamot, Roman Chamomile, Coriander, White Fir and Levander.
Ginger is: Antibacterial, Analgesic, Antiseptic, Aphrodisiac, Stomach tonic, Anti-nausea, Stimulant, Expectorant, Warms the skin and increases blood flow, reduces fevers, stimulates and clears the mind.
Ginger has been used for centuries in Asia for both culinary and medicinal purposes. In traditional Chinese medicine, it is used for colds and chills, both to promote sweating and expel mucus. Ginger was one of the first products to travel the "spice route" from Asia to Europe, where both the Greeks and Romans made extensive use of it. The Greek physician Dioscorides, in his text, On Theraputic Substances, (AD77) recommended it as a disgestive stimulant ­ a property still recognized today through the wide-spread use of Ginger for Nausea and Travel Sickness. Ginger has been reporded to positively affect the Spleen, Stomach, Heart, Lungs, and Kidneys. It is stimulating and warming for the digestive system, it can stimulate the appetite, relieve indigestion, abdominal distress and gas; excellent for dissolving old mucus ­ respiratory system or digestive system.
As a circulatory stimulant and tonic of the Heart, Ginger Oil is indicated for cold hands and feet, cardiac fatigue, and angina pectoris. Its Hot, invigorating nature makes it in addition, a powerful rubefacient (warms the skin and increases blood flow) for rheumatic pain of the cold, contracting type. In the long run, Ginger Oil will improve your athletic performance by increasing blood circulation; therefore extending your endurance, stamina and muscle strength.
Like the sedative opiate drugs that are derived from opium to act on the brain without affecting your central nervous system Ginger Oil acts or behaves in the same way for pain --that when applied to an area that is experiencing pain, the body absorbs and processes the Ginger Oil thru system right up to the brain ­ so it soothes the messages of pain registered by the brain without making you sleepy or foggy.
Psychologically, Ginger is arousing, opulent and stimulating. It is indicated for use in meditation when there is debility through nervous exhaustion. It warms and strengthens the emotions, increases determination and inspires initiative and action to carry plans through their conclusion. Ginger also helps blow away the winter blues and is useful in combating Seasonal Affective Disorder. Ginger Oil is

therefore indicated for those who may have clear plans and good intentions, but who lack the personal drive and optimism to manifest initiative and take real or immediate action. Such individuals tend to procrastinate and doubt themselves, waiting for others to spur them on. Ginger can restore the exhilaration of achievement so that enthusiasm can resurface and moving forward is easier.
PLEASE NOTE: ALL SUGGESTIONS SHARED ARE EFFECTIVE ONLY WITH DOTERRA CPTG OILS!
Dr. Susan's Morning Cocktail: 6 ounces of water ­add Ginger 1 drop, Lemon 1 Drop, Peppermint 1 drop, drink warm or room temperature. Will wake you up and clear your head.
Appetite-Stimulating Inhalant: Ginger 3 drops, Peppermint 2 drops, Black Pepper 4 drops, Coriander 6 drops, Clary Sage 8 drops; gently blend and pour into your inhalant and use often during day to keep system working and be able to consume nutrients. Great for people who have been ill and are weak or people recovering from chemotherapy.
Inhalant Blend Sinus Infections and Congestion: Ginger 3 drops, Rosemary 2 drops, Eucalyptus 3 drops, Frankincense 5 drops; mix oils together and pour onto wick and close tight and then inhale to relieve sinus infections and clear congestion; use as necessary....(www.Aromatools.com for great 6 pack of inhalers).
Colds and Flu Inhalant: Ginger 4 drops, Basil 2 drops, Black Pepper 2 drops, Eucalyptus 2 drops, Frankincense 4 drops, Thyme 2 drops, Bergamot 8 drops; gently mix and then add to your inhaler, or pour several drops into a bowl of steaming water and put a towel over your head and inhale for 5-10 minutes.
Weight-Loss Inhalant: Ginger Oil 3 drops, Fennel Oil 6 drops, Rosemary 2 drops, Black Pepper Oil 1 Drop; mix oils and pour onto wick and close tight and inhale a couple times an hour to decrease appetite and satisfy cravings.
Morning Sickness Inhalant Blend: Ginger 7 drops, Melissa 2 drops, Rose 2 drops; blend into a small bottle or inhaler and inhale to fight nausea and prevent vomiting.
Motion Sickness Inhalant Blend: Ginger 6 drops, Peppermint 6 drops; blend well and pour onto wick and start inhaling about an hour before the travel begins ­ keep inhaling ­prevents vomiting and keeps alert.
Headache Inhalant ­ Daytime: Ginger 4 drops, Basil 2 drops, Eucalyptus 1 drop, Peppermint 5 drops; blend well and pour onto wick and start inhaling.
Headache Inhalant ­ Nighttime: Serenity 4 drops, Lavender 6 drops, Roman Chamomile 3 drops; Gently mix and pour into inhaler and start using to relax and loose headache ½ hour before sleep.
Sinus Steam Inhalation: 1 quart steaming water, ¼ cup Epsom salts, Ginger 1 drop, Melaleuca 1 drop, Thyme 1 drop, Eucalyptus 1 drop; add oils to the Epsom salts and then mix into steaming water.

Hold head over the bowl and drape a towel over both your head and the bowl to capture the steam. Breathe in the vapors for 5 to 10 minutes. Repeat as necessary.
Icy Migraine Compress: ¼ cup Epsom Salts, 1 Quart ice-cold water, Ginger 2 drops, Peppermint 1 drop, Basil 1 drop; mix oils into Epsom Salts and gently stir into icy water, use light cotton dipped in to water and apply around the back of the neck and on the fore head ­ (never icy on the chest please!)
Lack of Determination: Ginger 2 drops, Roman Chamomile 4 drops; gently blend and apply to the bones behind the ears and behind the knees and accept inspiration to get clarity.
Dispirited and Disheartened: Ginger 2 drops, Rosemary 3 drops; Diffuse after lunch and dinner, gently blend and apply to the bones behind the ears and on palms of hands and rub together and inhale; load into an inhaler and use often to keep spirits up.
Boost Immunity Tea: Boil cup of water and let sit and cool for 5 minutes; then add 1 tablespoon of local honey with 1 drop of doTerra's Ginger Oil already in the honey and stir and sip until gone. Can add more water to keep good flavor and fragrance going. Can also use tea to recover from symptoms of flu and colds.
Morning Immunity Bath: ½ cup Epsom Salts, Ginger 2 drops, Rosemary 3 drops, Lemon 2 drops Melaleuca 5 drops; add drops to Epsom Salts and add to warm bath ­ stir until blended into water then soak for 15-20 minutes; pat dry.
Sinus Foot Bath: 1/4 cup Epsom salts, Ginger Oil 1 drop, White Fir 1 drop, Rosemary 1 drop; add oils to Epsom Salts then into foot bath (large dishpan works too) of warm water; stir until dissolved and then soak feet for 10-15 minutes.
Cold and Flu Chest Rub: 2 ounces of Coconut Oil, Ginger 2 drops, Oregano 1 drop, Thyme 1 drop, Frankincense 2 drops, Eucalyptus 2 drops, White Fir 2 drops, Melaleuca 2 drops; Gently blend And massage the oil over your chest and back several times daily until your symptoms are relieved.
Chest Rub for Coughs: 2 ounces of Coconut Oil, Ginger 3 drops, Thyme 2 drops, Melaleuca 2 drops, Cypress 3 drops, Lavender 3 drops Lemongrass 1 drop; Gently blend and apply to chest or vital-flex points on the feet and hands to relieve Cough.
Preventive Sports Rub: Coconut Oil 2 ounces, Ginger 2 drops, Rosemary 5 drops, Basil 5 drops Peppermint 3 drops; mix gently with the coconut oil and massage into your muscles before physical activity.
Arthritis Massage Blend: 2 ounces Coconut oil, Ginger 2 drops, Black Pepper 2 drops, Coriander 3 drops, Roman Chamomile 5 drops, Helichrysum 4 drops; gently blend and apply to areas of stiffness and pain. Increase water consumption.

Bruise Blend: Ginger Oil 2 drops, Helichrysum 3 drops, Geranium 4 drops, Sandalwood 1 drop, Cypress 3 drops; mix the oils together gently and apply to bruised area always in an upward motion toward the heart.
Circulation-Boosting Body Oil: 2 ounces Coconut Oil, Ginger 2 drops, Vetiver 2 drops, Rosemary 6 drops, Lemon 4 drops, Geranium 2 drops, Myrrh 3 drops; gently blend and rub on body in areas where you want enhanced circulation- this is a great early in the day formula.
Trusting Personal Blend: Ginger 1 drop, Melissa 1 drop, Rose 1 drop, White Fir 2 drops, Lemon Oil 2 drops, Coconut oil 1 teaspoon ­ gently blend and apply behind the ears or on the back of the knees­ or just inhale from rubbed on your palms - keeps good thoughts close and draws kind people to you.
Love Inspiring Diffuser Blend: Ginger 4 drops, Wild Orange 6 drops, Ylang Ylang 8 drops, Lavender 8 drops, Bergamot 8 drops, Myrrh 4 drops; gently mix and add to your diffuser for letter writing or peace making with yourself or others ­ will help you remember your goodness and beauty and identify it in others.
Sensual Diffuser Blend: (set the mood and "make the world go away") Ginger 4 drops, Vetiver 2 drops, Coriander 4 drops, Ylang Ylang 6 drops, Clary Sage 10 drops; gently mix in glass vial and then add 4-6 drops to your Lotus Diffuser 1 hour prior to foot rubs or get re-acquainted activity.
Mind-Activating Diffuser Blend: Ginger 5 drops, Patchouli 8 drops, Coriander 8 drops, White Fir 10 drops; gently mix and add 4-6 drops to your diffuser. Great before tests or new group stuff.
Memory-Jogger Diffuser Blend: Ginger 8 drops, White Fir 8 drops, Coriander 10 drops, Clary Sage 15 drops, Frankincense 4 drops; gently blend and add 4-6 drops to Lotus Diffuser; run for 10 minutes then wait for 30 minutes and do 10 minutes again ­ breathing deeply in the room - if before sleeping will have very colorful dreams.
Courage Inspiring Bath Blend: ½ cup Epsom salts, Ginger 1 drop, Black Pepper 1 drop, Fennel 2 drops, Thyme 3 drops; mix oils into Epsom salts and then pour into warm bath and stir until dissolved, soak for 15 to 20 minutes and then pat dry and get on with your project!
Fear-Less Personal Blend: 1 tablespoon Coconut Oil, Ginger 1 drop, Wild Orange 1 drop, Coriander 2 drops, Sandalwood 4 drops; gently mix and apply to bones behind the ears, at the base of the throat or behind your knees and enjoy the lightness of your world.
Constipation Abdominal Rub: 4 ounces Coconut Oil, Ginger 2 drops, Lemon 4 drops, Coriander 4 drops, Fennel 8 drops, Wild Orange 6 drops; gently mix and twice a day rub the blend around your core from right to left and allow to work with drinking lots of water. Even after initial release of toxins keep applying for another day and night and use GX Assist to re-stabilize the system.

Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Inhalers, Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to doTerra's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others. Our next oil will be Serenity.

