Grapefruit
Citrus ax paradisi
Feel Good Inside and Out Grapefruit is a big tree with glossy leaves and large fruits. The essential oil is expressed from the peel of the ripe fruit. Grapefruit has clean, fresh, light sharp top notes with slightly sweet, citrusy undertones. May contain up to 96% limonene.
Grapefruit is helpful with: as an antidepressant, anti-cancerous, antiseptic, antispasmodic, astringent, disinfectant, diuretic, eating disorders, gall bladder and liver congestion, stress reduction. Reported to be very helpful in changing eating habits and supportive in lymphatic decongestion and in recovery from a drug addiction. Cleansing effect on the kidneys, the lymphatic system and the vascular system is gentle but thorough.
Grapefruit is a valuable oil for fluid retention, cellulite and other conditions where toxins are not being eliminated effectively, being a detoxifier and stimulant of the lymphatic system.
Grapefruit stimulates the Sympathetic Nervous System (functions to accelerate heart rate, increase blood pressure, slow digestion, and constrict blood vessels; It activates the "fight or flight" response in order to deal with threatening or stressful situations). Using Grapefruit Oil on a regular basis keeps the SNS in good shape. **
Grapefruit is good for oily skin and acne, and has a tonic effect on the skin and scalp.
Grapefruit blends well with Basil, Bergamot, Cypress, Frankincense, Geranium, Helichrysum, Lavender, Patchouli, Peppermint, Rosemary and Ylang Ylang.
All Suggestions Listed Here Are For Usage With doTERRA's CPTG oils only!
Unique citrus oil in Grapefruit does not photosensitize the skin.
Psychologically, Grapefruit is refreshing and reviving, helping to alleviate stress, depression, nervous exhaustion and tension. Like Bergamot, it lifts the spirits in winter, and it is excellent blended in massage oils and bath oils to counteract emotional and physical exhaustion and lethargy. Grapefruit lifts self-esteem and promotes optimism.
When suffering with Edema (the swelling caused by the abnormal accumulation of fluids in a tissue or body cavity), one can really appreciate the diuretic action of Grapefruit to release the excess fluids. Mix 15 drops of Grapefruit oil with doTERRA's Fractionated Coconut Oil and Apply gently to swollen area in an upward motion toward to torso. Also Ingesting Grapefruit oil in water continuously during the day will motivate water to move out.
**Modern Essential, Second Ed. 2011,Abundant Health, LLC.

Protocols
Diffuse: Grapefruit at home, in the car or use in an inhaler to keep lifting spirits when loosing weight, moving to new job, new house, going on vacation or cleaning out closets.
Lymphatic Massage Blend: 1 ounce coconut oil, Grapefruit 5 drops, Geranium 4 drops. If used after hard exercise, it helps to disperse lactic acid from the muscles, so reducing aches and stiffness.
Hangover Remedy: Morning bath: To 1/2 cup of Epsom salts add 5 drops of Grapefruit and 3 drops of Rosemary and mix into a warm tub and soak while inhaling and drinking glass of warm water with 3 drops of Grapefruit and 2 drops of Peppermint..amazing recovery...
S.A.D. Therapy: (Seasonal Affective Disorder) Diffuse morning, noon and night, Apply to bottom of feet, back of the neck often during the day or use an inhaler and inhale deeply often.
Appetite Suppressant: Use Slim & Sassy according to directions. Also Grapefruit by itself in water all day long.
Cellulite Eliminator: 1 ounce of coconut oil, Grapefruit 10 drops, Lemon 8 drops; blend gently and apply to areas of concern to eliminate toxins and reduce the adipose cells that may be hoarding toxins and be a fat destination. Apply several times a day. Blend 2 drops of Grapefruit and 2 drops of Lemon for a very refreshing drink and aid in the reduction of cellulite.
P.M.S.--Apathetic-tired or Listless: Grapefruit 4 drops, Geranium 3 drops, Bergamot 2 drops; gently blend and apply to bottoms of feet and back of the neck.
Creativity Activated: Grapefruit 4 drops, Lemongrass 3 drops, Frankincense 2 drops; Blend together in your hands and rub into your wrists and then rub hands together to make warm and then cup face and inhale deeply and exhale slowly and inhale very deeply for two full minutes focused on allowing flow of positive energy.
Chemotherapy: When recovering from a diagnosis of cancer, and its various treatments, Grapefruit is a very effective mood lifter and detoxifier for the Liver so normal functions can return rapidly. The liver can regenerate itself when the body is given the correct balance of elements and Grapefruit is one of the gentle elements that is very helpful.
Immune System Booster: Grapefruit 5 drops, Frankincense 4 drops, Cinnamon 2 drops, Vetiver 2 drops, Rosemary 2 drops; gently blend And apply to bottoms of feet before sleep.
White Blood Cell Increase: Grapefruit 5 drops, Lemon 4 drops, Lemongrass 3 drops, Breathe 3 drops; gently blend and apply to the bottoms of feet before sleep.

Blood Clots: Grapefruit 4 drops, Clove 3 drops, Lemon 3 drops, Helichrysum 2 drops, is a good combination to ingest or apply to bottoms of feet to keep blood at a good flow rate.
Refreshing Ices: 4 cups of crushed ice; drizzle 4 drops of Grapefruit oil And mix and put into cups and enjoy.
Grapefruit is contained in these doTERRA blends:
Slim and Sassy (Metabolic Blend) is extraordinary in that it contributes to getting the entire body in balance ­ It deep cleanses and motivates the metabolic rate at which cells are produced, tagged and receptor sites are cleared so that perfect elements can match the "lock and key" system. Also reduces adipose cells so that when weight is eliminated there is less opportunity for the fat to find a home.
Aroma Touch (Massage Blend): Because of Grapefruit's ability to reduce stress and fatigue, it is perfect in this blend for fluid balance and pain relief of muscles.
Citrus Bliss (Invigorating Blend): Because of Grapefruit's antiseptic, diuretic and antidepressant qualities ­ it is balancing to the mind and may help relieve anxiety.
Remember, whenever you wear doTERRA's extraordinary oils you are a diffuser!!!
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Respectfully researched and presented for sharing on Grapefruit by Dr. Susan Lawton, 2011.

