IMMORTELLE (doterra Essential Skin Care)
10 ml. roll on bottle
Anti-Aging Blend Restoring the Essence of Youth (surprise Neurological Benefit)
doTERRA CPTG essential oils have been selected and blended into this proprietary formula which provides remarkable benefits to help maintain skin's well-being and beauty. Growing older doesn't mean growing less attractive. There are many ways to care for your health and skin, remaining vital and beautiful for a lifetime. Immortelle is also good for stretch marks & scarring.
This Blend of oils stimulates and regenerates the production of healthy skin cells quickly following burns, sun damage, or healing of wounds. These Essential oils soothe sensitive, delicate and inflamed skin. Balance over or under active skin by regulating sebaceous secretions. This blend can greatly reduce bacteria and fungal infections, as well as other related skin problems. These oils promote the release and removal of metabolic wastes that block oxygenation and can increase aging.
Frankincense: The therapeutic properties of Frankincense essential oil in skincare include that of being antiseptic, astringent, diuretic, and tonic. Dioscorides wrote about the wonderful properties it has in treating skin disorders and Ambroise Pare, the sixteenth century surgeon, sung its praises, since it stopped bleeding and accelerated healing of wounds. The fact is that it improves skin tone and condition and keeps skin young. The inherent astringent qualities of this oil also acts as balancer of the skin and reduces any dry or oily skin condition - returning it to normal. With all these good therapeutic properties, it is a powerful ally in the fight to keep wrinkles at bay, while at the same time improving the tone and quality of the complexion, even in more mature skins.
Sandalwood: Anti-depressive, antibacterial, antifungal, anti-inflammatory, anti- infectious, astringent, anti-tumor, expectorant, haemostatic (arrests bleeding), calmative, cardio tonic (strengthens the heart), lymphatic decongestant, sexual tonic and general tonic. Sandalwood is very similar to Frankincense in action. It is very high in Sesquiterpenes so it promotes oxygen to cross the BBB. The Pineal and Pituitary Glands love Sandalwood.

It may also be beneficial for acne, bronchitis, cholera, regenerating bone cartilage, gonorrhea, hiccoughs, insomnia, laryngitis, skin infection and regeneration, sinusitis, stimulating the immune system, tuberculosis, UTIs and yoga. Sandalwood is a very effective deodorant.
Lavender: Lavender actively demonstrates Positive Effect on Skin in these areas: Acne, Blemished Skin, Burns, Chapped Skin, Dry Skin, General Skin Rehabilitation, Great astringent for all skin types, old scars reduced, old sunburn lines reduced, Abscesses, Acne wounds, Itching, Seborrhea, Tatoo removed skin surface recovery. While they're busy revving up your immune system, Lavender Essential Oil molecules also conveniently fight infection at the same time. Lavender enhances immunity by increasing the production of white blood cells. These are the cells that patrol your body, cleaning and literally gobbling up foreign invaders.
Myrrh: Myrrh is a very powerful essential oil from ancient times. The Arabian people used myrrh for many skin conditions, such as chapped skin and wrinkles. It was also listed by Hildegard of Bingen in her book of medicines. Some of the many uses are candida, ringworm, eczema, tooth and gum infections. Myrrh, like Frankincense, is a universal oil, offering benefits for numerous complaints and conditions. Indicated for bronchitis, dysentery, hyperthyroidism, oral and vaginal thrush, ulcers, and viral hepatitis. It has also been found to benefit asthma, athlete's foot, coughs, eczema, gingivitis, gum infections, hemorrhoids, mouth ulcers, ringworm, wounds, wrinkles, and chapped or cracked skin. It is widely used today in oral hygiene products. Myrrh is what is known as "a fixing oil." Meaning it extends the life and action of any other oil with which it is combined. Biblical people knew this and included Myrrh as a significant portion of all their ointments. Myrrh was such a universally common ingredient of healing ointments at the time of Christ,that the Greek word for "ointment" (muron) and the Greek word for "myrrh" (muron) were the same.
Helichrysum: Helichrysum Oil Skin Uses: Abscesses, acne, boils, burns, cuts, dermatitis, eczema, irritated skin, wounds. Good for your dry skin and hair. Encourages production of your own natural oils in your skin and scalp. Helichrysum also increases the ability of your skin and scalp to hold in water. It is anti-inflammatory, which is good for dry skin because it reduces

skin irritation and puffiness that so often accompany the dryness. Excellent for chelating toxins out of system - brain and skin both.
Rose: Rose Oil works very well with Frankincense; Rose is antibacterial, anti-depressive, anti-inflammatory, antiseptic, antiviral, very calming and soothing to heart and body. One modest drop of the extraordinary doTERRA Rose Oil applied to the sternum (of one person) or at the base of the throat can affect the entire room of 30-40 people.... Vibrational element so strong it raises the vibrational level of all who come close or even walk thru the room after the Rose endowed person moves on. Rose Oil supports and soothes the emotions. It lifts depression, eases anxiety and panic, elevates spirits, and reduces stress and tension. It calms the nerves and helps to overcome hyperactivity and insomnia. Rose is very helpful with many aspects of grief and prolonged sadness. It helps to eliminate feelings of disappointment, jealous, resentment and anger and can help dissolve emotional blocks standing in the way of happiness. It inspires creativity and intuition. Rose Oil benefits all skin types, especially mature, sensitive, dry, or damaged skin. It helps restore the moisture balance and smoothes wrinkles. It soothes and comforts psoriasis, eczema, dermatitis, and other skin disorders by reducing inflammation. Works well in healing mouth sores and wounds.
This blend is amazing for eliminating age spots -- brown --even dark brown-keep applying --This blend helps skin cells to remember how to be perfect and very young.
Directions: Apply sparingly to face and neck, after cleansing, prior to serum and/or moisturizer. Pay special attention to age spots, fine lines and wrinkles.
Neurological Benefits: This amazing blend is great for: People recovering from closed head injuries -- apply to the bones at the base of the skull, bones behind the ears, and along the jaw line -- like a big smile - often during the day.
Clarity of Thinking: Paint a smile (once time across) across the back of your neck below the bones at the base of the skull and allow deep breathing to

assist your clarity for three minutes (breathing) --the change is subtle but very strong...and calming at the same time.
Seniors: Many seniors shy away from changes as big as oils and inhaling and applying new smells and such -- but explain that the Immortelle is excellent for reducing wrinkles especially around the eyes and gently reducing puffiness around eyes and for reducing age spots -- they will apply religiously and still get the neurological benefits.....
Chelation: apply to tissues around the ears and down the side of the neck and the back of the neck 2-3 times a day to relieve tissues of toxins and unpleasant heavy metals - vital that you consume gallons of water to flush the unwanted material away....
Headaches: Surprise!!! Surprise!! --Some migraine headaches are relieved by rolling this blend across the muscles at the base of the neck and on the temples at the beginning of the headache --re-apply every 20 minutes if necessary --surprise!!!-May combine with Peppermint for really tough ones.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc. NOTE: The advice shared in document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Respectfully researched and presented for sharing on by Dr. Susan Lawton, 2011.- questions for the next oil may be submitted to slawton1@optonline.net - no personal reply will happen but if the question asked is appropriate info for many people we will cover at the end of the next oil week. Our next oil will be Deep Blue.

