LAVENDER
LAVANDULA ANGUSTIFOLIA
Swiss Army Knife of Oils
doTERRA Lavender CPTG Essential Oil smells clean and fresh and permeates the air with a delightful aroma that simultaneously stimulates and relaxes. Steam-distilling the flower tops and stalks produces colorless silky oil. It has a sweet, floral, and herbaceous scent with a balsamic, woody undertone.
The ancient Greeks and Romans celebrated Lavender for its perfume and for its cleansing properties. They lavished it upon their bodies in scented soaps and baths, had the flowers strewn on the floors so that when stepped on the fragrance was released (weddings and celebrations) in sick rooms to improve fragrance and relax the patient--some considered Lavender an aphrodisiac.
If someone does not like the fragrance of Lavender - it may be due to an internal infection that has not been resolved - see if the person likes the smell of OnGuard or Oregano and suggest that they may apply that oil to the bottoms of their feet nightly for 3 weeks and then retest the Lavender reaction -- they may volunteer that during the three weeks of consistent application and increase in water intake that little things like sinus drainage disappeared, warts left, stomach problems resolved -- amazing.
For centuries, Lavender was a remedy for ailments as diverse as insect bites, lice, muscular aches and pains, nervous disorders, scabies, sprains, and toothaches. Herbalists frequently prescribed Lavender to fight fatigue, relieve respiratory ailments, and soothe stomachs. Women relied on Lavender to keep their skin clean, clear, soft, and supple. Early twentieth-century medications for colic, coughs, headaches, hoarseness, nervous palpitation, sore joints, used Lavender in smelling salts, in linen closets, scented lingerie drawers and protected clothing from moths and insects. During World Wars I and II, Korean War and in Viet Nam solders and medics carried Lavender oil with them onto the battlefields for disinfecting wounds and sooth fears and those in pain.
Today Lavender is recognized as being an effective analgesic, anti-coagulant, anti-convulsive, anti-depressant, anti-fungal, antihistamine, anti-infectious, antiinflammatory, antiseptic, antispasmodic, antitoxic, cardio tonic, cell regenerative and sedative.
Lavender may help with Abscess, Arthritis, Balancing Body Systems, Boils, Bronchitis, Bruises, Candida, Carbuncles, Cold Sores, Colic, Convulsions, Cystitis, Depression, Earaches, Fainting, Flu, Gallstones, Hay Fever, Halitosis, relieves Headaches, resolve Heart Irregularity, reduce High Blood Pressure,

Hypertension, Hives, Hysteria, Insect Bites and Bee Stings, Infection, Insomnia, Laryngitis, Migraine Headaches, Mouth Abscess, Palpitations, Pineal Gland (activates), Rheumatism, skin conditions, Sprains, Stress, Sunburns (including lips) Sunstroke, Tension, Throat Infections, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Vomiting, Whooping Cough and Wounds.
Generally, Lavender is good for everything - Swiss Army Knife of oils - very versatile for young and old, by itself or mixed with other oils. It has a sedative and tonic action on the heart (hysteria, nervous tension, palpitations) and calms cerebro-spinal excitability; it is renowned for its nerving-sedative properties, and has proved valuable in a variety of nervous and psychological disorders, including depression, insomnia, migraine, hysteria, nervous tension and paralysis. It can be used in epilepsy, convulsions, catalepsy and other nervous conditions (manic depression) and nervous exhaustion.
Lavender is commonly known for being very therapeutic in use with: Asthma, Bronchitis, Burns, Colic, Nausea, Vomiting, flatulence, Dermatitis, Eczema, (Lice and Scabies eliminated), Psoriasis, Boils, Rheumatism, Ulcers, Blepharitis, Conjunctivitis, Cystitis, Laryngitis, (reported to recover baldness from nervous problems), Pleasant and effective Deodorant.
Lavender Positive Effect on Skin in these areas: Acne, Blemished Skin, Burns, Chapped Skin, Dry Skin, General Skin Rehabilitation, Great astringent for all skin types, old scars reduced, old sunburn lines reduced, Abscesses, Acne & Acne wounds, Itching, Seborrhea, Tattoos removed skin surface recovery,
While they're busy revving up your immune system, Lavender Essential Oil molecules also conveniently fight infection at the same time. Lavender enhances immunity by increasing the production of white blood cells. These are the cells that patrol your body, cleaning and literally gobbling up foreign invaders.
All Suggestions Presented are Effective only with doTERRA CPTG products!
Muscles - Lavender Massage Blend - (11 drops Lavender to 2 oz. of coconut oil) will relieve aches and pains but one of the gifts of Lavender is that when blended with Marjoram, Rosemary or White Fir - Lavender itself is expanded in its positive characteristics and the boost it gives the oils blended with it take on a whole new penetrating and cell regeneration activity that creates an atmosphere at the cellular level that rapidly reminds the cells how to be perfect again and swift healing is ignited.
Entering a stressful situation - apply a little Lavender to back of hands or hair edges and be a walking diffuser to calm everyone down - just a little works great.
Lavender - diffused - antibacterial, mood elevating and calming
Lavender - applied to skin may be diluted for throat exterior or other very

sensitive areas of the body - for calming and soothing effect -- a little bit Burns or wounds - apply drops directly and NEAT to the site often
Lavender - a little bit = sedative and very calming
Lavender - consumed - in capsule with coconut oil or NEAT - anti-bacterial, anti-nausea, stomach and spleen and lever happy - natural anti-histamine - cat allergies.
Lavender - several drops on body is a clarity stimulant - physical and mental
Lavender can easily be mixed with doTERRA's Hydrating Moisture Cream or doTERRA's Spa Hand and Body Lotion for skin issue recovery are amazing combinations, for cold sores or herpes outbreaks, rashes or very dry or infected skin issues.
Lavender Bath - mix 4-6 drops into 1/2 cup of Epsom Salts put in bottom of bath tub and add very warm water and stir in to dissolve - soak for 15 minutes relaxes muscles relieves nervous tension - warms the heart and steadies the emotions.
Herpes or other skin infections caused by a virus, use a Lavender salve, lip balm or NEAT Lavender Oil direct on the site; can mix Lavender with our doTERRA's moisture cream and apply to recovering area.
Insect Bites and Stings - (Bee, Wasp, Gnat, Mosquito) gently rub Lavender on bites often until resolved.
Flushing Tear Ducts - apply Lavender NEAT on the ridge above the eyes on the forehead and down the center of the nose 2 - 3 times a day-clear chronic debris or sand damage; excellent for itchy edge eye relief in weather changes or cats, dog, animal exposure.
Ulcerative Wounds, sprains, strains - Lavender Oil 4 drops, Roman Chamomile 3 drops-gently mix with 4 drops of coconut oil and apply and gently massage in - use spritzer for open wounds and reapply often.
Headaches-Lavender by itself- apply to temples for general headache.
Cluster Headache - apply to triangle at the base of the skull and the bones behind the ears.
Migraine Headaches - apply to muscles at the base of the neck and on the bones behind the ears - initial app. just Lavender; 20 minutes later mix with Bergamot 1:1 and apply same area; if lack of change, then add Helichrysum and

Roman Chamomile with just 1 drop of Clove. Warm moist towels applied on top of oils - remember to use coconut oil and check to be sure not toooo hot!
Relieve Intolerant and Impatient Feelings: Lavender 2 drops, Bergamot 3 drops, Peppermint 1 drop added to 1 teaspoon of coconut oil; gently blend and apply with an expectation of feeling differently.
Relieve Hurt and Bitter Feelings: Lavender 2 drops, Rose 2 drops, Helichrysum 2 drops added to 1 teaspoon of coconut oil; gently blend and apply over liver with an exp.
Relieve Pattern of Hypochondria: Lavender 3 drops, Cypress 3 drops added to 1 teaspoon of coconut oil; gently blend and apply over forearms with an expectation of...
Relieve Anxious Desperation: Lavender 4 drops, Rose 2 drops added to 1 teaspoon of coconut oil; gently blend and apply on throat and back of the neck with an expectation that all is better.
Relieve Tense and Exhausted: Lavender 2 drops, Clary Sage 5 drops, Cypress 3 drops added to 1 teaspoon of coconut oil; gently blend and apply to shoulders and base of the neck with an expectation of Peace and renewed energy.
Relieve Nervous and Agitated Feelings: Lavender 3 drops, Wild Orange 2 drops and Bergamot 1 drop added to 1 teaspoon of coconut oil; gently blend and apply to forearms with an expectation of feeling Peace and renewed energy.
Aching Tired Legs Blend: Lavender 15 drops, Rosemary 20 drops, Peppermint 5 drops added to 3 oz. of coconut oil; gently blend and apply from ankles up to above knees, elevate for 15 minutes
Relaxing Oil Blend: Lavender 20 drops, Clary Sage 15 drops, Melissa 5 drops added to 3 oz. of coconut oil; gently blend and apply to sternum and back of the neck while breathing deeply and allowing stress to leave.
Skin Fungus: Treat the affected skin areas daily with a blend of 2 ounces of coconut oil, 50 drops of Melaleuca, and 25 drops of Lavender - if very sensitive skin dilute a little more - It the skin fungus has spread to many areas of the body, aromatic baths with these oils helps - remember to use Epsom Salts in baths to disperse oils throughout the water - not just ride on the surface.
Pimples: Treat pimples locally with 15 drops of Lavender, 32 drops of Melaleuca added to 2 oz. JoJoba oil - apply to clean skin twice daily, or dab a few drops of Lavender NEAT drops on the area.

Healing of Scars: old or new - Lavender 15 drops, Wild Orange 10 drops, Bergamot 15 drops, Frankincense 10 drops, Geranium 5 drops added to 3 oz. of coconut oil; gently blend and apply daily before sleep.
To Tauten the Skin: Lavender 25 drops, Wild Orange 6 drops, Rose 5 Drops, Frankincense 6 drops added to 3 oz. of coconut oil; gently blend and apply to areas
Eczema: Lavender 20 drops, Helichrysum 10 drops added to 2 oz. of coconut oil and gently blend and apply daily to pealing itching areas.
Sunburn-Soothing Bath Blend: 1/2 cup apple cider vinegar, Lavender 5 drops, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Eucalyptus 1 drop, Peppermint 1 drop added to bath cool water and soak for 15 minutes - repeat every 2 hours to provide relief.
Stress-Reducing Bath: 1/2 cup Epsom Salts, Lavender 2 drops, Cypress 1 drop, Geranium 1 drop, White Fir 1 drop, Vetiver 1 drops - blend oils with Salts and then add hot water to bathtub and mix until dissolved, make good temp and soak for 15-20 minutes breathing deeply.
Stress-Soothing Massage Oil: Coconut Oil 2 oz., Lavender 3 drops, Roman Chamomile 3 drops, White Fir 3 drops, Marjoram 3 drops, Frankincense 3 drops, Ylang Ylang 2 drops; gently blend and enjoy providing relief while massaging.
Cool-Down Compress Blend: Lavender 5 drops, Clary Sage 6 drops, Roman Chamomile 6 drops, Wild Orange 4 drops, Geranium 3 drops, Patchouli 2 drops; gently blend in a small glass bottle - add 2-3 drops of the blend to 1 quart of cool water. Soak a clean cloth in the water and apply it to your face, forehead and back of your neck, chest or other areas of your body to prevent or cool down hot flashes. Avoid contact with eyes.
Instant Calm Inhalant: Lavender 5 drops, Vetiver 3 drops, Roman Chamomile 7 drops; gently blend in glass vial and pour into wick of inhalant and carry with you.
Diffuser Blend for Hypertension: Lavender 11 drops, Clary Sage 9 drops, Ylang Ylang 7 drops, Marjoram 5 drops; gently blend and then put 4-6 drops in Lotus Diffuser run for 15 minutes every two hours.
Hypertension Massage Oil: Coconut Oil 1 oz., Lavender 4 drops, Ylang Ylang 4 drops, Melissa 1 drop and Wild Orange 1 drop; gently blend and use as massage.
Hemorrhoid Massage Oil: Coconut Oil 1 oz., Lavender 4 drops, Melaleuca 2

drops, Coriander 1 drop, Myrrh 1 drop; gently blend and apply to painful area.
doTERRA CPTG Products are the finest in the world and need to be treated with moderation in application and consumption - allow Mother Nature, in its purest form, to work with the miracle that is your body in a gentle and consistent manner. A little bit goes a long way - you can always add more if you need to 10 minutes later or an hour later.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, and David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Respectfully researched and presented for sharing on by Dr. Susan Lawton, 2011.- questions for the next oil may be submitted to slawton1@optonline.net - no personal reply will happen but if the question asked is appropriate info for many people we will cover at the end of the next oil week. Our next oil will be Cassia.

