Lemon
Citrus limon
Lemon is a small evergreen tree, (grows from 9 to 19 feet tall) with oval leaves, fragrant flowers and green fruits turning to yellow. It fruits all year round and each tree can yield as much as 1500 lemons per year. Cold Pressed from rind; sweet, sharp, clear citrusy fragrance which is invigorating, mood enhancing, warming and detoxifying.
Anticancer, antidepressant, antiseptic, antifungal, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antiviral, astringent, mild diuretic, immune tonic, lymphatic decongestant, pancreatic stimulant, invigorating and refreshing.
Lemon Oil has been documented to be helpful with: anxiety, blood pressure, clarity of thought, digestive problems, energy, gallstones, kidney stones, promoting new blood cell growth, lymphatic system cleansing, memory improvement, can lower blood pressure, assist in liver detox, and relief of muscle aches and pains, cleansing and repair of skin injuries, decreases intestinal parasites, sore throat and sinus repair, pain relief of arthritis and rheumatism, water purification, removing gum from hair, removing wood stain from clothes and from wood, removes oil and grease spots.
Due to its' ability to improve microcirculation, Lemon Oil can support repair from: arteriosclerosis, obesity, urinary tract infections, varicose veins, and hypertension, relief of lymphatic congestion, bloating, and can relax stiff muscles. It is also useful in skin care to brighten the complexion, and is indicated for oily skin and acne.
Lemon Oil has the ability to counteract acidity and makes it useful to rheumatic conditions, gout, arthritis and digestive acidity.
Use in canteens to keep water fresh, to avoid mold and keep slime from developing. Proven effective against food poisoning, malaria, typhoid and scurvy.
Can work as a natural antihistamine.
In France, physicians treat disorders such as diabetes, gonorrhea, high blood pressure, malaria, syphilis, tuberculosis and typhoid with lemon oil. It fights the infection of bronchitis, coughs (a few drops in mouth work quickly) and sore throats and relieves the discomfort of colds, fevers, and flu. It can also prevent most asthma attacks (rubbing on the throat and chest and inhaling calms the tightness of the chest and opens the capillaries so the lungs can process oxygen).
Because lemon oil can kill bacteria and other germs in minutes, many European hospitals use it to sanitize hospital rooms and kill airborne germs.
Lemon Oil enhances immunity by stimulating white blood cell production and improving the body's ability to combat infection. It can be helpful with Chronic Fatigue syndrome and sluggish lymph system. Lemon Oil encourages the elimination of wastes, reduces constipation, and eases arthritis. It tones the heart, kidneys, liver and pancreas.
Lemon Oil can stop the bleeding of cuts, wounds, shaving nicks, nosebleeds and bleeding gums from gingivitis or tooth extractions. It helps diminish the pain of cold sores, herpes, and mouth ulcers.
Lemon Oil balances overactive sebaceous glands that lead to oily or blemished skin, helps clear acne, and controls oily hair and dandruff. It revitalizes sluggish or mature skin and helps reduce cellulite by

improving circulation and encouraging the elimination of wastes. Lemon Oil encourages the exfoliation of dead skin and enlivens the complexion. Lemon Oil can work well to bleach (make lighter) spots on the skin with consistent treatment (on face or neck, please dilute 1 drop lemon to 2 drops of coconut oil). It tautens (tightens) tired or aging skin. Long-term treatment with lemon oil reduces broken capillaries and varicose veins, softens scar tissue and minimizes warts and corns. Lemon Oil can also strengthen brittle nails.
Emotionally and psychologically, Lemon Oil is radiant, uplifting, reviving and stimulating. It helps to prevent emotional outbursts and assists in making decisions. Lemon helps spring-clean the mind, bringing clarity and shedding light when the mind has become foggy and confused and assists in recall. It can subdue aggressive behavior, fights depression, eases fear, strengthens resolve, and assists in communication and decision making. Lemon inspires trust and a sense of security; it relieves confusion and worry. It can help you overcome obstacles and provide a clearer perspective. Useful in meditation for clearing the mind, lemon also opens the heart. It purifies and promotes spirituality.
Warning: Lemon Oil may be irritating to sensitive skin. It may also promote photosensitivity, leading to sunburn or uneven darkening of the skin.
Note on Cancer: The anti-cancer properties of limonene and citrus essential oils have been studied at over 50 universities and hospitals worldwide, including: Johns Hopkins University, USA University of Arizona, Tucson (Liver) Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, USA (Lung) University of Texas, Houston, TX USA Purdue University, Indiana USA (Breast) Institute Henri Beaufour, France (Lung)** **Cancer versus Essential Oils and other Super Nutrients, 2006, ESP,; Aroma Tools.com...carries this publication Suggestion for prevention of cervical, prostrate, breast and some forms of skin cancer***: eat your 5 fruits and vegetables each day, drink your water (1/2 of your weight in oz. of water daily). Blend of Lemon 5 drops, Sandalwood 3 drops, Frankincense 3 drops, Thyme 2 drops, Vetiver 2 drops, Peppermint 4 drops. Mix oils gently in a bottle and apply to the bottoms of your feet once a week during stressful times or when preparing for surgery or recovering from surgery or major loss. If you have fragile or sensitive skin on the bottoms of your feet you can add coconut oil. ***Essential Oil Cancer Research, Nicole Stevens, 2009, Aroma Tools.com carries this publication
Protocols:
To Pep Up: use Lemon Oil on the inside of your forearms 2-3 drops and rub the arms together and inhale.
Simple Detox: Put Lemon Oil in your water ­ use glass or stainless steel ­ 1-2 drops in 8-12 oz. ­cleans some toxins out of the water and will energize and detox you.
Diffuse Lemon Oil on a regular basis to: Eliminate viruses and bacteria that are unfriendly and infectious in nature in the atmosphere of your home or office. Mental clarity is enhanced by simply breathing in Lemon Oil that has been diffused. Toxic triggers for asthma can be eliminated from the air. Molds can be eliminated from the air space.
Real estate agents report that by diffusing Lemon Oil for 15 minutes before showing an open house that viewers seem very relaxed and interested in asking questions. Accountants report that when reviewing

tax returns with clients in the conference room where lemon oil has been diffused the clients are calmer and more receptive to suggestions on how to change their money management than before using diffuser.
Edges of food preparation areas: use Lemon oil with a spritzer head to clean the areas where food is cut, cleaned and prepared for cooking; be sure to rub the sides and undersides of these areas because sometimes blood or fish or chicken rinsing leftovers will seep over the sides and hide underneath and breed unfriendly bacteria. Spritz directly and wipe down after each use. Aromatools.com has spritzer tops for bottles.
Combs, Clips and Brushes for the Hair: Glass container or stainless steel: use 1/3 teaspoon of Epsom salts and 4 drops of Lemon oil then add 16 oz. of water and soak the items for at least 10 minutes. Then rinse off and use. Do not soak overnight as the oil will help the polymer elements of the combs and brushes dissolve or weaken the bristles of polymer (plastic) brushes.
Hypertension blend: Lemon 4 drops, Melissa 1 drop, in capsule 2 times a day
Preoccupied with detail: Frankincense 3 drops, Vetiver 2 drops, Lemon 1 drop.
Memory improvement: Lemon 1 drop, Rosemary 1 drop, White Fir 1 drop.
Improve Sense of Humor: Lemon 2 drops, Frankincense 1 drop, Rose 1 drop, Lavender 2 drops, mix and wear on bones behind the ears.
Anti-aggression Personal Blend: 1/8 ounce coconut oil, Lemon oil 2 drops, Bergamot Oil 4 drops, Ylang Ylang 3 drops, Sandalwood Oil 2 drops, Melissa 1 drop.
Energizing Body Oil: 2 ounces of coconut oil, Lemon Oil 3 drops, Geranium 3 drops, Coriander 2 drops, Rosemary 4 drops.
Gum Therapy Oil Blend: 1/8 ounce coconut oil, Lemon 3 drops, Myrrh 6 drops, Melaluca 10 drops, Peppermint 1 drop. Massage into your gums after you brush your teeth once a day for regular gum maintenance.
Gingivitis Gum Massage Oil: ½ ounce coconut oil, Lemon Oil 2 drops, Wild Orange 1 drop, Myrrh 2 drops, Melaluca 4 drops. Once or twice daily, after brushing your teeth, massage a couple of drops into your gums.
Headache Relief with Mood lifting: Lemon 4 drops, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Lavender 2 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Rosemary 1 drop, White Fir 1 drop, Coconut Oil 8 drops. Mix gently in a roller bottle aromatools.com and roll on the muscles at the back of the neck and shoulders and allow to work for 5 minutes. Then stretch head from side to side gently.
Warm Compress for Varicose Veins: 2-quart glass bowl, 1/3 teaspoon of Epsom Salts in bottom of bowl ­ add: Lemon 1 drop, Rosemary 1 drop, Geranium 2 drops, Pour 1 quart Warm Water into bowl, mix gently. Soak a clean cloth in the water and apply the compress to the affected areas. Elevate your legs for fifteen minutes. Follow with a Cool Stimulating Compress for Varicose Veins:
 2 quart glass bowl, 1/3 teaspoon of Epsom Salts in bottom of bowl--add: Cypress 2 drops, Ginger 1 drop, Peppermint 1 drop, add one quart of cool water, blend gently, soak a clean cloth in the water and apply it to the legs. Elevate your legs for 15 minutes. o Follow with Varicose Vein Massage Oil ...combine: 1 ounce coconut oil

o Cypress 3 drops, Patchouli 2 drops, Rosemary 2 drops, Lemon 1 drop and Geranium 1 drop. Gently blend in bottle and the begin applying directly above the varicose veins, massage your legs with oil, using strokes directed upward toward the heart. Repeat once or twice daily.
Cold Sore Compress: 1-quart glass bowl, add 1/3 teaspoon Epsom salts, add oils to Epsom salts before adding water, 1 drop each of Lemon, Melaluca, and Bergamot... add the water to the premixed salts/oils and blend. Soak a clean cloth in the water to make a compress; apply the compress to the affected area frequently during the day.
 Healing for Herpes: mix one ounce of Fractionated Coconut Oil with Lemon 2 drops, Bergamot 3 drops, Myrrh 2 drops, Melaluca 2 drops. Apply the blend to the affected area after treatment with a Cole Sore Compress.
Lymph Massage Oil: 1 ounce Coconut oil, Lemon 3 drops, White Fir 4 drops, Cypress 3 drops, Grapefruit 1 drop. Massage from the knees up on the outside of the legs on the lymphatic path several times a day to relieve lymphatic congestion.
Immune-Boosting Massage Oil: 2 ounces of Coconut oil, Lemon 3 drops, White Fir 2 drops, Frankincense 2 drops, Myrrh 1 drop, Wild Orange 4 drops, Geranium 4 drops, Thyme 1 drop, Lavender 2 drops. Blend gently and then apply over body a few times a day after illness or when heavy stress is happening.
Sweet Dreams Personal Blend: 1/8 ounce of Coconut oil, Lemon 2 drops, Sandalwood 6 drops, Ylang Ylang 2 drops, Coriander 1 drop and Vetiver 1 drop. Apply a few drops of the blend to your wrists and rub together and inhale.
Pain Relief Capsule: Lemon 3 drops, Vetiver 3 drops, Marjoram 3 drops ­ can take every 4 hours as needed but not for internal consumption by pregnant women.
Automatic Dishwasher Detergent: Use 2 drops of Lemon Oil with your soap and only use ½ of the recommended amount of detergent plus the lemon oil will help with no spots and clean rinse.
Lemon Oil is great for cleaning everything and is an easy fragrance on most people. To demonstrate how oils remove polymer toxins from system use styrofoam cup.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Thank you for your sharing with others.

