LIME Citrus aurantifolia
May cause skin sensitivity relative to the sun, be cautious.
Lime is a small evergreen tree with drooping branches, oval leaves, white flowers and small green fruit. The essential oil is expressed from the peel of the nearly ripe fruit. Lime has clean, fresh, green top notes with slightly bitter, citrusy undertones. It blends well with other citruses, and nicely with lavender, geranium, ylang ylang, rosemary, cypress and sandalwood essential oils.
Lime essential oil comes from the fruit of the common citrus tree. It can be either steam processed or cold pressed to produce the essential oil. The former produces a clear oil and in the heating process an important constituent (furocoumarin) is destroyed. dTERRA uses oils that are cold pressed producing a lime colored essential oil wherein the furocoumarins are preserved. (Furocoumarins are organic chemical compounds produced by plants as a defense mechanism against various types of predators ranging from insects to mammals) dTERRA's Lime is very special; it has an amazing balance of constituents including limonene, alcohols, esters, pinenes and furocoumarins.
Modern research and studies During studies, evidence regarding the effectiveness of lime's ability to increase iron absorption. Additional study is needed before a firm conclusion can be drawn.
A study investigating the antibacterial effects of two plants extracts showed Citrus Aurantifolia showing promising broad spectrum antibacterial effects on human pathogens.
A study of the lime volatile oil of CA yielded 22 compounds, D-limonene, D-dihydrocarvone among the major compounds. The oil showed 78% inhibition of human colon cancer cells, DNA fragmentation and apoptosis induction, results that suggested potential antiproliferative benefits in colon cancer prevention.
A study on essential oils of three varieties of C. aurantifolia showed the plant to be very rich in monoterpenes, with limonene its major compound. The three extracts showed fungicidal inhibiting action to phaeoramularia angolensis and presents an alternative to chemical fungicides used for Citrus fruit crops.
Everything shared here is about and with dTERRA CPTG Essential Oils
Lime's (Physical) Therapeutic properties
Lime oil is anti-rheumatic, antibacterial, antibiotic, antiseptic, antiviral, anti-mucus, reduces fever, and disinfectant.
Lime is great for anything to do with skin recovery, acne, it is an extraordinary citrus oil for the respiratory system as it is anti-mucus and a natural decongestant; it aids the lymphatic system, helps in the recovery of insect bites and reduces muscle spasms, and cramps.

Lime interferes with the cell to cell communication for the genetic expression of pathogenic (disease causing) bacteria...this means that disease cannot take control of your cell reproduction due to the combined compounds of dTERRA's Lime.
dTERRA's Lime inhibits (Stops) enzymes which can activate compounds to form cancer in the body.
Lime is an excellent disinfectant, which will not only effectively kill bacteria but it is a natural antiseptic and smells divine.
Lime can be used in recipes of all types and varieties (let combinations of food cool down then add Lime)
Lime's (Emotional) Therapeutic properties. Lime, like other citrus oils is effective for calming and stress relief. It is uplifting and stimulating which makes it great for brainstorming and creative thinking.
Diffuse lime essential oil to shake off feeling of lethargy, and to help energize the soul.
Suggested Protocols Children will experience asthma relief by directly inhaling lime. Use a diffuser, drop oil in cupped hand and inhale, or make a tea and inhale the steam as it evaporates.
Use direct massage for cramps or spasms.
Gargle and swallow for sore throats, decongestion, and first signs of cold or flu.
Use lime or combine with the Breathe blend and diffuse or apply hourly to the chest for any respiratory condition.
Blend with other oils in a capsule for internal anti-viral or anti-bacterial issues.
Use lime oil in a massage of the lymph nodes to help detox and drain lymph nodes. Start at neck below the jaw and ears, and use deep strokes toward the heart.
Add 50 drops (Epsom salts) to a spray bottle with 8-12 oz of water for cleaning and disinfecting.
Diffuse: To create atmosphere to allow emotions to shift and change.... Use at least 8 drops of the following combination in diffuser for 15 minutes prior to...
Meditation for Healing Loss: Rose, Lime, Patchouli, Ylang, Ylang, Sandalwood, and Clary Sage.
Meditation for Healing Bereavement: Lime, Frankincense, Marjoram, Melissa, Rose, and Cypress.
Meditation for Strengthening your Resolve: Lime, Cypress, Rose, Coriander, Patchouli, Thyme, and Basil.
To Grow Patience with Self: Lime, Cypress, Roman Chamomile, Wild Orange, Marjoram, and White Fir.

To Support Adjusting to New Home or Residence: Lime, Rose, Wild Orange, Clary Sage, Peppermint, Frankincense, and Ginger. Massage Blends: Remember to drink lots of water to cleanse toxins released during Massage out of the body. For each massage blend please use 4 tablespoons of Fractionated Coconut Oil. Lymphatic Detox Blend: Lime 5 drops, Rosemary 5 drops, and Geranium 5 drops Stimulating Detox Blend: Lime 4 drops, Grapefruit 5 drops, and Helichrysum 2 drops Precaution Lime can inspire photosensitivity, so if used topically on the skin the area should not be exposed to sunlight or ultraviolet light for 12 hours to avoid severe burning.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Essential Oils Reference Guide, R.L. James, 2009 Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of the Bible, David Stewart, Ph.D. 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle, RN, Ph.D., 2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy for Healing the Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 The Aromatherapy Bible, Gill Farrer-Halls, 20005 Published research on Essential Oils and Cancer, Nicole Stevens, 2008, 2009 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, and Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Thank you for your sharing with others.

