Marjoram (Origanum Majorana)
Herb of Happiness (dTerra)
Marjoram is a bushy tender perennial that grows up to 1 foot in height. Its many branches have square stems and tiny oval gray-green leaves that may be fuzzy. Knot-like buds borne on spikes open to form clusters of white or pink flowers. When in full bloom, marjoram branches and leaves are steam distilled to produce an essential oil with a warm, woody, spicy, slightly peppery and nutty aroma that is calming and comforting. It is native to Asia, but was naturalized in Europe where it was a favorite of the Greeks and Romans. The scent (fresh & herbaceous; warm, sweet and slightly woody) and properties are milder than the closely related and potentially overwhelming Oregano (Origanum vulgare).
Historically: Marjoram was known as the Herb of Happiness to the Romans (carried by the soldiers in small ceramic vials while they were out conquering the world and used both internally and externally for wounds and attitude adjustments) and Joy of the Mountains to the Greeks (used in celebrations and rituals for the passing of the elderly and the naming ceremonies). It was believed to increase longevity. Listed in Dioscorides' De Materia Medica (A.D. 78), Europe's first authoritative guide to medicines that became the standard reference work for the herbal treatments for over 1.700 years. It was listed in Hildegard's Medicine, a compilation of early German Medicines by highly regarded Benedictine herbalist Hildegard of Bingen (1098-1179). *
Theraputic Properties: Analgesic, antibacterial, antibiotic, antidepressant, anti-fungal, antiinfectious, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antispasmodic, antiseptic, anti-sexual*, antiviral, blood pressure stabilizer, calmative, digestive stimulant, disinfectant, expectorant, mucolytic, neurotonic, promotes intestinal peristalsis, sedative, stimulant, vasodilator, **
Marjoram is one of those antiviral oils that give you a bonus in that it also kills bacterial infections, so if you are unsure as to what you have or what you are recovering from, use Marjoram to kill off viruses and then the bacterial infection that can sometimes be left behind that causes lots of discomfort.
Marjoram works very well with the cardio vascular system and connective tissue. Marjoram helps the capillaries, veins and arteries remember how to keep their rhythm (nice beat, easy to dance to). Liver and Spleen love Marjoram because it helps to detox the sticky -icky stuff that slows down the naming process of new cells and sorting of retired ones.
All Recommendations are Effective only with dTerra CPTG Products
Marjoram has been used effectively for relief of arthritis/rheumatism pain, headaches, respiratory infections, menstrual problems/PMS, fungal infections, ringworm, shingles, sores, spasms, fluid retention and insomnia.
Marjoram may be relaxing and calming to the muscles that constrict and sometimes contribute to headaches. It may help with anxiety, boils, bruises, burns, carbuncles,(inflamed swelling), colds, respiratory congestion, cold sores, cuts, insect bites, fungus and viral infections, hysteria, shock, sunburns, tension and bad attitude.

Decreasing swelling is one of Marjoram Essential Oil's most important jobs, because swelling causes most of the pain you experience from cuts and bruises. If you have a headache, menstrual cramps or bruises, repetitive strain injury, sore throat, insect bite or almost any type of infection, they all involve inflammation that pins down your nerves, and that pressure causes pain. Marjoram can penetrate without causing extra heat sensation to the area. It can be effective (drink your water) with relief of backaches, carpal tunnel syndrome, sciatica and temporomandibular joint (TMJ) syndrome.
Emotionally: I think of Marjoram as a comfort oil, good for children and adults who have been through a lot physically or emotionally or both. Inspires contentment and compassion. Warming and relaxing, Marjoram oil addresses itself to each aspect of psychological health. It helps to calm obsessive thinking, ease emotional craving and promote the capacity for inner self-nurturing. In its ancient role as a Funeral Herb, it can help us to accept any deep loss, especially when combined with oils of Cypress, Frankincense and White Fir. As an Herb of Love, it nourishes the place from where neediness springs, helping to restore our power to give. Minimizes emotional upsets, making it useful for relieving anxiety, aggression, anger, emotional exhaustion, hyperactivity, nervousness, and stress. Because of its balancing and regulating actions, it can ease obsessive behavior and negative thoughts.
Protocols: Diffused: it promotes Peace and Restful Sleep, because just inhaling the aroma of Marjoram produces sedating brain wave patterns in your brain. ***
Diffuser Blend for Hypertention: Clary Sage 15 drops, Lavender 10 drops, Ylang Ylang 6 drops, Marjoram 6 drops; gently mix and add 4 ­ 6 drops to Lotus Diffuser and inhale.
Baths: one way to enjoy thriving health is to soak in an oil bath... I recommend Using a ½ cup of Epsom salts in the bottom of a clean dry tub ­add 8 to 10 drops of your favorite oils to the Epsom salts then add very hot water and stir until dissolved; then make the water the temp you can comfortably bathe in and soak for at least 12 minutes (do not add additional hot water ­ rinse with shower and pat dry only) remembering to breathe deeply from time to time to enjoy the inhalation of the fragrances and the detoxing of the mucousal membranes.
Nighttime Bath for Easing Aggression: Marjoram 4 drops, Roman Chamomile 4 drops, Ylang Ylang 2 drops, Patchouli 1 drop.
Bath Blend for Releasing Anger: Ylang Ylang 3 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Melissa 1 drop.
Bath Blend for Getting Thru Grief: Cypress 4 drops, Bergamot 2 drops, Marjoram 2 drops.
Tension Easing Bath Blend: Lavender 3 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Corinander 2 drops, Patchouli 1 drop.
Happy Bath Blend: Bergamot 3 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Wild Orange 2 drops, Oregano 1 drop.
Headache Relief Bath: Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Lavender 2 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Clary Sage 1 drop, Corinader 1 drop.

Blood Pressure-Reducing Bath: Ylang Ylang 3 drops, Clary Sage 2 drops, Marjoram 2 drops.
Relaxing Bath Blend: Lavender 3 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Oregano 1 drop, Vetiver 1 drop.
After-Sports Bath: Lavender 3 drops, Roman Chamomile 2, drops Marjoram 2 drops, Helichrysum 1 drop.
Sciatica Soak: ½ to 1 cup Epsom salts/add oils/soak for 15-20 minute-- Marjoram 4 drops, Eucalyptus Oil 2 drops and Thyme oil 2 drops.
Lonely and Forlorn: Marjoram 3 drops, Rosemary 2 drops, Myrrh 1 drop; mix Gently and apply to sternum and writs and back of neck.
Soothe Aching Muscles: Coconut oil 1 teaspoon, Marjoram 3 drops, Lavender 4 drops, Thyme 4 drops, Peppermint 4 drops; gently mix blend and apply to sore areas.
Soothe Aching Muscles: Coconut Oil 1 tablespoon, Marjoram 4 drops, Geranium 5 drops, Frankincense 3 drops, Clove 2 drops, Peppermint 4 drops.
Snoring Remedy: Coconut Oil 20 ml. (4 teaspoons), Marjoram 4 drops, Roman Chamomile 3 drops, White Fir 3 drops, Lavender 3 drops, Thyme 2 drops, Eucalyptus 2 drops. Massage the formula into the upper chest, back of the neck, shoulders, and along the back before going to bed.
Sprain Relief Mix: Coconut Oil 1 teaspoon, Marjoram 4 drops, White Fir 2 drops, Cypress 4 drops, Peppermint 3 drops. Gently mix and apply to sprain every ½ hour for first 4 hours and then every few hours as needed.
Immune Boosting Treat for the Feet: Apply in Layers for synergistic action... Balance 2 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Basil 2 drops, Oregano 3 drops, Wintergreen 2 drops, Cypress 3 drops, Thyme 2 drops, Aroma Touch 4 drops, Wild Orange 3 drops. Apply each oil on top of previous and massage into feet from heal up to toes and then put on heavy cotton socks and rest for 20 minutes to allow circulation of oils to work thru the whole system.
Tension-Easing Massage Oil: Coconut Oil 1 ounce, Marjoram oil 3 drops, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Lavender 2 drops, Helichrysum 1 drop. Massage the mixture over your neck and shoulders to relieve muscular tension. Repeat as necessary.
Post-Workout Rub: Coconut Oil 1 ounce, Marjoram Oil 3 drops, Thyme Oil 2 drops, Roman Chamomile 4 drops, Lemon oil 3 drops, Cypress oil 4 drops, Peppermint oil 2 drops. Mix gently and massage the mixture into your muscles and joints to prevent stiffness and pain.
Marjoram Blends well with: Bergamot, Citrus Bliss, Cypress, Frankincense, Lavender, Lemon, Rosemary, Sandalwood, Wild Orange and Ylang Ylang too.
* Modern Essentials, 2009, Abundant Health, 1st Edition ** Essential Oils History & Overview, R. James, 2008 ***Aromtherapy for Dummies, 1999. Wiley

Precautions Marjoram oil gives you greater control over sexual desire, but long term use can permanently numb erotic sensations, diminish sex drive, and decrease sexual function. (daily for weeks too much ­ rotate with other oils). Marjoram oil can cause drowsiness, so you should avoid driving or operating heavy machinery when using it a lot.
Resources we use on a regular basis:
Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are no intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Respectfully researched and presented for sharing on Marjoram by Dr. Susan Lawton, 2011.

