Melaleuca (Ti-Tree, Tea Tree)
dTerra's Melaleuca Alternifolia: very potent; only takes a little. Effective First Aid Kit in a Bottle
Melaleuca (Tea Tree) is a shrub or small tree with needlelike leaves, which grows best in swampy ground. Also known as paper bark, the bark of tea tree is white and papery. The essential oil is steam-distilled from the leaves and twigs. (This grows best in Australia). Melaleuca has a warm spicy, camphoraceous top notes with pungent, medicinal undertones. It blends well with Lavender, Eucalyptus, Peppermint, Wild Orange, Basil, Clove and so much more. Non-toxic for all aspects.
Very powerful antimicrobial activity against all three of the infectious organisms: Bacteria, Viruses and Fungi. When diffused, it helps to prevent the spread of infection (URI, flu etc.). Together with its powerful immunostimulant properties, Melaleuca is a real ally in combating many illnesses and ailments. (colds, flu, URI, UTI, Cystitis)
Works on: athlete's foot, thrush, candida, cold sores, herpes, insect bites, spots, acne, and minor abrasions all respond well to local applications. Works well as an anti-viral when used for Chronic Fatigue Syndrome and H.I.V. motivated infections.
Very effective with: Bleeding Gums, hemorrhoids, gingivitis, mouth ulcers, and periodontal disease; open wounds, scrapes, blisters, Candida Rash, warts, abrasions, dandruff, jock itch relief, eczema, seborrhea.
It relieves the symptoms of asthma, bronchitis, colds, congestion, coughs, earaches, fevers, laryngitis, sinusitis, sore throats, tonsillitis, and whooping cough.
Analgesic, anti-fungal, anti-inflammatory, anti-parasitic, antiviral, cardiotonic, neurotonic, phlebotonic, insect and lice repellent.
All recommendations below are based on dTerra CPTG Products only!
Melaleuca is psychologically warming and strengthening. Its aroma is distinctly medicinal and many people find it more palatable when it is blended. Melaleuca invigorates the mind, body and spirit; inspires confidence, and dispels the doom and gloom of chronic ill health.
Topical, Shingles ­ Spritz Melaleuca directly on area.
Topical, Eczema--pour into palm of hand and rub into areas gently or spritz on top of areas flaking and weeping. (Purchase spritzers and bottle spray tops from www.aromatools.com

Pre-surgery protocol: Melaleuca used in general messages and with AromaTouch Technique several weeks prior to surgery stimulates immune system so resistance to infection is boosted and post-operative shock can be reduced.
Diffuse: Melaleuca 5 drops, Frankincense 4 drops, Roman Chamomile 3 drops, Clove 2 drops, Lemon 2 drops , gently mix oils and put 4-6 drops of mixture into Lotus diffuser to keep germs from moving from person to person and keep spirits up.
Make A Tea: Boil Water and let sit and cool a little and then add 2 drops of Melaleuca Oil to warm water and gently stir may add Agave or Stevia or Honey and inhale warm fragrance and sip to Sooth sore throat or sinus pain.
Teeth and Gums: Melaleuca by itself ­ rub into gums and on sores, mix with baking soda as a very effective toothpaste and gum healer.
Gum-Strengthening Mouthwash: 8 ounces distilled water, Myrrh Oil 2 drops, Melaleuca Oil 2 drops and Peppermint 1 drop. Gently shake bottle and after brushing teeth, rinse your mouth thoroughly with about ½ ounce of the mixture.
Toothache Oil: 1/8 ounce coconut oil, Melaleuca 3 drops, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Oregano 1 drop, Peppermint 1 drop, gently blend and apply 1 drop on the aching tooth and the surrounding gum as needed.
Fevers: Melaleuca 2 drops, Peppermint 1 drop, Lemon 1 drop ­ apply to bottom of feet or on the back of the neck every ½ hr. or every 2 hrs.
Respiratory Rub: 1 ounce Coconut oil, Frankincense 3 drops, White Fir 2 drops, Melaleuca 3 drops, Thyme Oil 1 drop...Gently Blend in New bottle and apply to back of neck, chest and sternum to aid breathing and clear excess mucus.
Chest Rub for Coughs: 2 ounces of coconut oil, Melaleuca 2 drops, Thyme 2 drops, Cypress 2 drops, Ginger 3 drops, Lavender 2 drops
Athlete's Foot Relief : 2 ounces of coconut oil, Melaleuca 5 drops, Eucalyptus 4 drops, Myrrh 2 drops, Peppermint 1 drop.
Sitz Bath for Cystitis: 1 tablespoon Epsom salts, Melaleuca 3 drops, Bergamot 1 drop, Cypress 1 drop, Thyme 1 drop. Add oils to Epsom Salts and mix into the warm water of a shallow tub. Sit hip-deep in the Tub for fifteen minutes. Repeat once or twice each day until your symptoms subside.
Cystitis Massage Oil: 1 ounce of coconut oil, Melaleuca 2 drops, Sandalwood 3 drops, Wild Orange 2 drops, Roman Chamomile 1 drop and Frankincense 1 drop.

Massage the mixture over your abdomen, lower back, and pelvic area. Repeat several times daily until symptoms are relieved for 24 hours.
Hemorrhoid Massage Oil: 1 ounce coconut oil, Melaleuca 2 drops, Lavender 4 drops, Coriander 1 drop and Myrrh 1 drop. Mix and apply externally as needed.
Jock Itch Oil: 1 ounce coconut oil, Melaleuca 3 drops, Thyme 3 drops, Frankincense 1 drop, Myrrh 1 drop, Gently turn the container upside down several times or roll it between your hands to blend. Apply the mixture to the affected area several times daily as needed.
Snoring Remedy: Coconut oil 4 teaspoons, Melaleuca 3 drops, Roman Chamomile 4 drops, Lavender 3 drops, Geranium 4 drops, Grapefruit 3 drops, Thyme 2 drops, ,,,gently blend and massage into the upper chest, back of the neck, shoulders, and along the back before going to bed.
Breathe More Easily during Aerobics, Sports, and other Exercise: In Glass Spritzer bottle blend: ¼ teaspoon of Epsom Salts in bottom of Bottle, add oils and then 2 ounces of filtered water, Lime Oil 25 drops, White Fir 15 drops, Melaleuca 20 drops, Thyme 10 drops...Before exercising, spray the mists into the air and breathe deeply to help soothe breathing passages.
Resources we use on a regular basis:
Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Respectfully researched and presented for sharing on Melaleuca by Dr. Susan Lawton, 2011.

