Melissa Essential Oil (aka Lemon Balm)
Enhances life, gladdens the spirit and chases away dark thoughts...
Melissa oil is extracted from the fresh flowering tops, leaves, and upper stem of a Melissa plant. The flowers are quite attractive to honey bees, and are often planted near bee hives for a source of pollen. Melissa is a very expensive essential oil, primarily because 3.5 to 7.5 tons of plant material is needed to produce one pound of essential oil. It has a sweet herbal aroma, and is considered a powerful therapeutic oil. Melissa oil has a comforting effect that is also known to have outstanding antiviral properties. It has a soothing but encircling sedative effect that must be experienced to appreciate. Modern research and studies Studies at the Technical University of Munich reported that applications of Melissa caused a complete remission of Herpes Simplex lesions. A single drop was applied directly on the area a few times a day to speed healing, and following this protocol was shown to prevent further outbreaks in a significant portion of study participants. On going studies have found the use of Melissa essential oil effective in aiding cognitive issues for patients suffering from dementia.
Melissa's (Physical) Therapeutic properties. Melissa has many therapeutic properties. It is analgesic, antidepressant, antihistamine, antiinflammatory, anti-spasmodic, anti-viral, calmative, carminative, choleretic, digestive stimulant, hypertensive, litholytic, vasodilator. (May inspire profuse perspiration when detoxing of old virus debris so hydrate very well) dTERRA's Melissa has been found to be 98% effective in killing viruses.
It has been found to be excellent for relief of migraine headaches, nervous asthma, and has also been known to alleviate coughs and bronchitis (with thick discharge). It can also be taken internally (only dTERRA CPTG) for PMS symptoms. It helps in the healing of liver, bitter stomach or rocky intestines, colic, indigestion, gas, and stomach aches; it is also effective in treating Mumps. Melissa will penetrate the blood brain barrier and will penetrate at a cellular level. Very effective in treating Vertigo, Polio, Shock, Lyme Disease and Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever; Palpitations and Blood Pressure issues that are related to respiratory issues. Apply neat to herpes outbreaks. Use to support recovery from eczema, psoriasis and dermatitis. Melissa can calm inflammation that contributes to redness, swelling and itchiness, it stimulates the metabolism and tones and enlivens the skin.

Melissa's (Emotional) Therapeutic properties.
Melissa is also very well known for its emotional and psychological properties. It assists in soothing action on the heart and nerves, benefits restlessness, insomnia and nervous agitation. Melissa acts as a mild tranquilizer without dangerous and addictive side effects.
Melissa has an amazing ability to relieve depression particularly in those who are emotionally sensitive and do not respond well to pressure. Melissa supports people who are easily traumatized by confrontation.
Some tend to show emotional strength by trying to contain or restrain feelings rather then respond to and express feelings of hurt and anger. These emotions begin to build up, generating an oppressive state of mind.
Melissa can penetrate the deepest layers of the human psyche, and can help restore both clarity and security to a confused, dependent (victim thinking) soul. It can replace intensity with serenity, and distrust with innocence. Melissa is among the most effective oil for anxious depression and a feeling of foreboding; effective in easing grief and soothing sadness, helps people to return to a sense of balance.
Melissa is sedative, uplifting and deeply calming, and is good for meditation, especially to counteract ANGER and allay grief. It strengthens the heart chakra and inspires universal love and divine Joy.
Suggested Protocols
For skin issues, infection and skin allergies, use diluted up to 1:5 coconut oil.
CAUTION: If very sensitive skin dilute even more and always use it in small amounts--no more than 1 percent.
Melissa can be used directly to evoke a reliable change in attitude. Use a single drop of Melissa on the thumb and applying to the roof of the mouth while insisting that the "Virus of negativity or self criticism leave" and expect positive reinforcement of virtues from within.
For help recovering from a "Virus" whether bronchial or intestinal, use 2 drops of Melissa under the tongue (no water for 25 seconds) and inhale gently thru the Mouth for 25 seconds ­ repeat every 4 hours until recovery is past obvious.
Dr. David Hill's comments on Melissa
"An excellent blend for use as an effective anti-depressant: Melissa, Wild Orange and Peppermint. Not only is it excellent for depression, but it balances emotions and anxiety.
"Melissa is a very powerful antiviral essential oil... (We know that) essential oils penetrate the cells in our body and Melissa is 60% phenylpropanoid (an organic compound associated with the structural components of the body's cellular walls). Therefore, Melissa, with its antiviral property can inactivate a virus before it enters a cell and protect the integrity of the healthy cell structure. This is important since a virus needs a host cell before it can multiply and do its damage in the body. This makes Melissa very effective against the herpes virus that over 92% of us have in our systems.

Dr. Hill points out that preschoolers are one of the fastest growing markets for prescription antidepressant drugs. One suggestion is to diffuse Melissa and Frankincense together for depression. Blend Melissa and Patchouli in a capsule to be taken internally for cognitive diseases.
Dr. Hill notes five health concerns that benefit from the calming properties of Melissa. These are depression, anger, Alzheimer's, dementia, and cognitive impairments. He suggests diffusing Melissa essential oil at night. Also applying topically with Melissa and Frankincense for depression." From dTERRA 2010 Convention Introduction of Melissa by Dr. David K. Hill

Protocol for Using Melissa in Treating Herpes I & II**

Symptom

Topical Application

Frequency

Tingling

Undiluted Melissa

Every 4 hours

Redness & swelling

Undiluted Melissa

Every 4 hours

Pustule formation

Undiluted Melissa

Every 4 hours

Broken Pustule

25 % Diluted *

Every 2 Hours

Raw Skin

5% Diluted *

Every 2 hours

*dilute with dTERRA Fractionated Coconut Oil

Herpes Healing Tonic: 1 ounce pure grain alcohol, 4 drops Melaleuca oil, 3 drops of Wild Orange oil, 2 drops Eucalyptus oil, and 1 drop Melissa oil. Gently mix and apply at the first signs of itching, which may signal an outbreak. Reapply frequently. Gently Blend this tonic each time you go to apply. (NEVER use isopropyl alcohol for aromatherapy purposes.

Tension-Release Diffuser Blend: 15 drops of Lavender, 10 Drops of Clary Sage, 4 drops of Geranium, 2 drops of Melissa, and 2 drops of Ylang Ylang. Gently mix oils together and then add 2 to 3 drops to diffuser ½ hour prior to people being in room.

Healing Oil Blend for Herpes: 1 ounce of Fractionated Coconut Oil, 3 drops of Bergamot oil, 3 drops Wild Orange oil, 2 drops of Myrrh oil, 2 drops of Melaleuca oil, 2 drops of Melissa oil, and 1 drop of Sandalwood oil. Use a Cold Compress and then apply the oil blend to the area.

Hypertension Massage Oil: 1 ounce of Coconut Oil, 4 drops of Lavender, 4 drops of Ylang Ylang, 1 drop of Wild Orange, and 1 drop of Melissa. Massage blend into skin daily. More often if stressful day.

Goodnight Sleep Massage Oil: 2 ounces Fractionated Coconut Oil, 5 drops Lavender oil, 4 drops of Ylang Ylang oil, 2 drops of Vetiver oil, and 2 drops of Melissa oil. Gently mix combination and apply ½ hour prior to sleep time.

Morning Sickness INHALANT Blend: 4 drops Ginger oil, 1 drop Melissa oil, 1 drop Rose oil. Inhale directly from the bottle as necessary to fight nausea and prevent vomiting. After blended, apply to wick of inhaler from AromaTools and carry with you to stay digestion disturbance free.

Bath Blend for Dealing with Disappointment: 2 drops of Rose oil and 1 drop of Melissa oil. Mix oils into ½ cup Epsom Salts and then add hot water to tub and stir until dissolved and soak for 15 to 20 minutes.

Decreasing Personal Disappointment Blend: 4 teaspoons of Fractionated Coconut Oil, 4 drops of Frankincense, 4 drops of Rose, and 2 drops of Melissa. Mix oils with coconut oil and gently stir; then wear as a fragrance or inhale directly from the bottle as needed.
Relaxing Personal Blend: 4 teaspoons Fractionated Coconut oil, 4 drops of Sandalwood, 3 drops of Melissa, 2 drops of Frankincense, 2 drops of Ylang- Ylang, 1 drop of Vetiver, and 1 drop of Clary Sage.
Grief-Relief Personal Blend: 4 teaspoons of Fractionated Coconut Oil, 4 drops of Wild Orange, 2 drops of Melissa oil, 2 drops of Myrrh oil, and 1 drop of Rose oil.
Panic-Preventing Personal Blend: 4 teaspoons of Fractionated Coconut Oil, 4 drops Geranium oil, 2 drops of Lavender, 2 drops of Melissa, 1 drop of Frankincense, 1 drop of Wild Orange, and 1 drop of Ylang Ylang.
Shock-Soothing Personal Blend: 4 teaspoons of Fractionated Coconut Oil, 2 drops of Melissa, 2 drops of Coriander, 2 drops of Wild Orange, 1 drop of Rose, and 1 drop of Melaleuca.
**Cohenetal 1964; Kucera & Herrmann 1967; May & Willuhn 1978)
Resources we use on a regular basis: Essential Oils Reference Guide, R.L. James, 2009 Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, and Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Thank you for your sharing with others. Respectfully researched by Dr. Susan Lawton and submitted to support usage of Melissa.

