On Guard
Protective Blend
Activity of all the oils in the Protective Blend On Guard are: Antibacterial, anti-infectious, anti-inflammatory, antiseptic, anti-viral, mood lifters, anti-carcinogen, anti-infectious, anti-parasitic, blood cleansers, immune system booster, digestive disorders.
Individual Specialties:
Wild Orange--(Citrus Sinensis) antidepressant, anti-tumoral, colic relief, hepatic (liver)stimulant, promotes bile flow by stimulating the gall bladder, helps with digesting fats, stimulates new cell development within bone marrow, improves arteriosclerosis (hardening of the arteries),
Clove Bud --HOT-(Eugenia Caryophyllata)analgesic/anesthetic, (helps people quit smoking and other oral addictions), tooth and gum pain, removes unfriendly bacteria in mouth or other mucosal membranes in body, major antioxidant, anti-tumoral, anti-aging, anticoagulant, anticonvulsant,.
Cinnamon--HOT-(Cinnamomium Zeytanicum) antifungal, antispasmodic, removes gas from stomach and intestines, diuretic, antiviral (Herpes etc.), anticoagulant, warming, anti-parasitic with worms, friend of the pancreas (blood sugar balancer).
Eucalyptus--(Eucalyptus Radiata) decongestant, diuretic, expectorant, relieves respiratorycongestion, promotes uptake of Oxygen by red blood cells, effective in treating Malaria, bronchitis, stimulates the regeneration of lung tissue. Herpes simplex, etc., pain relief for arthritis,
Rosemary--(Rosemary Officinalis) respiratory ailments relieved, cardiotonic, cephalic (benefits the head and the brain), memory improvement, diuretic, litholytic (breaks down stones), neurotonic (strengthens the nervous system), good for low blood pressure and strengthens the heartbeat, stimulates cell renewal (eliminates psoriasis, eczema and other types of dermatitis), strengthens fragile vessels and ducts.
Uses :  Wear OnGuard with Frankincense (1 drop to 1 drop) to draw Abundance to you.
 Diffuse On Guard to eliminate air born unfriendly bacteria or viruses.
 Gargle with a little bit of salt with several drops of On Guard and ½ cup of water for throat infection.

 Drink a few drops of On Guard every hour to ward off sore throat, swollen glands or general aches and pains that may indicate you are coming down with something.
 Using On Guard on the bottom of the feet each night will help with a good night's sleep and give your immune system a nice boost to help avoid bugs and coughs that travel through the work or school environment.
 Teachers in our community who wipe down desk legs and chair legs before the children enter classroom have less illness in class and less absenteeism than in other classes where On Guard is not used.
 A Basic Skills classroom that diffuses On Guard for 15 minutes every 2 hours has reported that not only is there less absenteeism but the students are generally calmer. Sometimes the trigger to restart the diffuser is that the noise level rises in the classroom.
 On Guard on the toothbrush with baking soda is a wonderful treatment for sore gums or aggressive gingivitis.
Information shared in this document by Dr. Susan Lawton is from research and practice; there are many more effective combinations of doTerra CPTG Oils than are listed here. NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Thank you for your sharing with others.

