Past Tense - Tension Blend
Caution: Possible Skin Sensitivity. Keep out of reach of children. Keep out of eyes. Do not put in to nose or ears or other sensitive openings of the body. Dilute with Fractionated Coconut Oil to calm any sensitive skin. The oils in this blend are 100% Pure Therapeutic Grade Essential Oils. If Pregnant or under a doctors' care for any reason consult a physician on usage.
This is a very strong blend ­ use a little and waits 5 minutes before applying more.
Everything shared here is about and with doTERRA CPTG Essential Oils
Wintergreen: Analgesic, antibacterial, anti-inflammatory, astringent and can be a stimulant, strong mover of elements, pain relief even to bones, arthritic pain, headaches, joint pain and skin disorders. It may also be effective with cystitis, acne, bladder infection, gout, gallstones, edema, eczema, osteoporosis, ulcers and UTI.
Lavender: analgesic, antibiotic, antidepressant, anti-inflammatory, antiseptic, diuretic, disinfectant and sedative. Effective on acne, arthritic pain, asthma, bronchitis, burns, colds and flu, cuts and wounds and depression.
Peppermint: Analgesic, anti-inflammatory, antiparasitic, antiseptic, antispasmodic, astringent, expectorant, stimulant. Effective on arthritic pain, asthma, back pain, bronchitis, colds and flu, colic, congestion, depression, diarrhea, fever, headaches indigestion, insect bits, menstrual problems, migraines, motion sickness, nausea and skin disorders.
Frankincense: Analgesic, anti-cancerous, antidepressant, antifungal, antiinflammatory, antiseptic, astringent, diuretic and sedative, oxygenates the brain and circulatory system. Effective on Asthma, Bronchitis, cuts and wounds, dermatitis, depression, headache, indigestion, skin disorders, sore throat and stomachache.
Cilantro: Plant grows for 8-10 weeks and flowers, once it does flower, it will make seeds, which can be harvested as Coriander Seeds. Cilantro Oil is made from the leaves of the plant and need to be harvested carefully as the leaves are fragile and the oil processes quickly and thinly when distilled. It is primarily thought to be good for detoxing tissues and binding to heavy metals within the body. In the case of surface contact it has a nice analgesic property.

Marjoram: analgesic, antibacterial, antibiotic, antifungal, antioxidant, antimicrobial, antispasmodic, anti-cancerous, antiviral, mood lifter, disinfectant, expectorant, sedative, and stimulant. Effective on arthritic pain, asthma, anxiety, back pain, bronchitis, bruises, colds and flu, constipation, cuts and wounds, headaches, hypertension, indigestion, insomnia, menstrual problems, migraines, sprains, stomach ache and stress.
Roman Chamomile: anti-infectious, anti-inflammatory, antiparasitic, antispasmodic, calming, mood lifter, inspires courage and sense of self, facilitates movement of miniscule elements and toxins out of tissues, and decongestant. Effective on; blood cleansing, helps liver reject poisons, allergies, bruises, cuts, depression, insomnia, muscle tension, restless legs, skin conditions like acne, dermatitis, eczema, shingles, rashes and sensitive skin.
Basil: Antibiotic, antidepressant, anti-inflammatory, antiseptic, antispasmodic, antiviral, decongestant, disinfectant, and expectorant. Effective on bronchitis, cold and flu, depression, earache and ear infections, headache/migraine, insect bites, stress.
Rosemary: Antibiotic, antispasmodic, astringent, diuretic, respiratory relief and stimulant. Effective on acne, arthritic pain, asthma, bronchitis, bruises, colds and flu, cuts and wounds, dermatitis, diarrhea, headaches, insomnia, joint pain, skin disorders, and stomach ache.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Essential Oils Reference Guide, R.L. James, 2009 Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, and Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Thank you for your sharing with others.

