Patchouli Essential Oil Pogostemon cablin
Patchouli essential oil is steam distilled from the leaves and flowers of a medium sized (up to three foot high) leafy bush with small pinkish-white flowers. The plant is of the mint family and is native to the tropical regions of Asia. It is now widely grown in Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, West Africa, Vietnam and can be cultivated in the Americas. There are three primary species of the plant, cablin, heyneanus, and hortenis. Many essential oils come from the heyneanus which is a less effective oil. dTERRA uses the oil distilled from the cablin species that produces the best essential oil and has a noticeably different odor than the inferior oils.
Patchouli has been used by Asian cultures for centuries for its medicinal properties. Because of its properties it was used to fight infections, for digestive disorders, for skin care, and as an antidote for insect and even snake bites. In our modern era it became popular with the hippie generation during the 60's for maybe other than truly medicinal purchases. Both Tisserand and Schnaubelt mention the pungent odor even likening it to the "smell of goats, musty attics and old coats". This strong and persistent odor elicits both positive and negative responses. Some suggest its heavy, musty odor becomes an acquired taste and the odor has the unique property of "improving with age" like a fine wine.
Dr. David Hill, in discussing the properties of Patchouli mentions it having more than 24 sesquiterpenes that allows this essential oil to cross the blood-brain barrier making it a very effective protector of the central nervous system. He also suggests it is effective, in combination with Vetiver, for children with ADHD or autism and adults with Alzheimer's or recovering from a stroke.
In one study, 22 oils were tested against 22 bacteria and 12 fungi. Patchouli was found to inhibit 21 of the 22 bacteria and all of the fungi. Pattnaik S, Subramanyam VR, Kole C. PubMed database.
Patchouli was also found to be effective in another study against E.coli O157:H7, Listeria monocytogenes, Campylobacter jejuni and Salmonella enterica. Friedman M, Henika PR, Mandrell RE. Cited in the PubMed Database.
Patchouli also seems to possess some repellant action as noted in a study where it clearly repelled and damaged subterranean termites. Zhu BC, Henderson G, Yu Y, Laine RA. Published in Agriculture Food Chemistry.

Patchouli aspects are: antibacterial, antibiotic, antidepressant, anti-inflammatory, antimicrobial, antiseptic, antifungal, astringent (for vascular and skin issues) sedative , decongestant, deodorant, diuretic, insect repellent, phlebotonic, tissue regenerator, digestive aid that combats nausea, Patchouli prevents wrinkles/chapped skin, relieves itching, and is excellent for skin infections, acne, impetigo and herpes. Effective with many snakebites native to North America.
All Recommendations or Suggestions are effective only with doTerra CPTG Oils
Combined with Cypress and Geranium it may be used as a vascular decongestant and astringent.
As a phlebotonic and tissue regenerator it is suitable for scarring, hemorrhoids and varicose veins.
Patchouli oil helps with weight loss: It curbs the appetite and it tones and tightens skin to prevent sagging after weight is lost. It can improve the appearance of cellulite and varicose veins.
By increasing urination, patchouli discourages bloating and water retention associated with PMS.
Patchouli is helpful in treating athlete's foot, jock itch, vaginitis and fungal infections of the skin, such as Candida.
Because dTERRAs Patchouli has a high degree of Susqueterpines in it, it easily allows oxygen to cross the blood brain barrier. This makes it helpful with stroke recovery, closed head injuries and brain disorders, Alzheimer's, and dementia. Patchouli has also helped with Issues of ADHD, anxiety and autism. It also allows cells to heal from oxidation (cells of the brain and spinal cord are especially susceptible to oxidation)
It is effective with internal or external bacteria, viruses, fungi and protozoa. It is also efficacious against Herpes Simplex virus, H1N1, and notovirus.
Psychologically Patchouli works through harmonizing, grounding and stabilizing the mind when over thinking and worry develop.
Patchouli produces an aphrodisiac effect with an anti-depressive one. Quelling an overactive intellect and gently stimulating the senses, the oil is able to uplift the mind and through its spicy warmth calm the body. It will gladden and inspire, reawakening the fertile imagination and uplifting creativity.
Patchouli oil diminishes depression and eases anxiety by heightening a sense of joy in life. It helps in recovery from nervous exhaustion, stress and stress-related condition.

It reduces mental fatigue and banishes lethargy. In small amounts it acts as a sedative, while in larger quantities, it is stimulating.
When used properly, it replaces fear with confidence, indecision with motivation, and indifference with compassion. Patchouli has a great ability to help manage anger and sooth the Liver which can be the storage unit for anger ­ old or recent.
Suggested Protocols Combine Patchouli 4 drops, with Fractionated Coconut Oil 3 drops, and apply topically for skin issues.
Blend Cypress 10 drops, Geranium 5 drops, and Patchouli 5 drops, and apply to the calf and back of the neck for use as a vascular decongestant and astringent.
Apply Patchouli with Fractionated Coconut Oil to stretch marks, scars and hemorrhoids as needed with decent frequency (at least twice daily). Use of Patchouli on stretch marks is most efficacious during weight loss. Patchouli may be blended with Cypress as a synergistic blend for hemorrhoids.
Apply Patchouli to base of the skull and breathe aromas to calm spirit and eliminate chaotic thinking.
Apply Patchouli to roof of the mouth, and base of the skull or bottom of the feet for neurological and emotional issues.
Apply Patchouli to the bottom of the feet with Balance, Frankincense or Vetiver central nervous system protection and soothing to anger issues 1:1:1:1 drops
To recover from fatigue of Tedium, blend Coriander 3 drops, Patchouli 2 drops, and Bergamot 1 drop.
To recover from "Over-analytical and detached", consider a blend of Geranium 3 drops, Sandalwood 2 drops, and Patchouli 1 drop.
For repeated negative triggers consider frequent, repeated application over the liver or ingesting in a capsule. This can help balance anger and release fear so that self-trust expands.
Communication Enhancement: Patchouli 4 drops, White Fir 5 drops, Grapefruit 6 drops, Fractionated Coconut Oil 1 tablespoon; mix blend and apply to the upper chest, back of the neck and on the shoulders of all parties having trouble communicating ­ excellent for couples planning a big change or moving residences.

Mood Uplifting: Patchouli 4 drops, Geranium 4 drops, Rose 2 drops, Clove 2 drops, Frankincense 4 drops, Wild Orange 3 drops, and Fractionated Coconut Oil 1 tablespoon. Mix gently and apply on the bones behind your ears, on your shoulders and back of your neck whenever you need mood lifted.
Anxiety Relief Diffuser blend: Patchouli 8 drops, Clary Sage 10 drops, Bergamot 10 drops, Geranium 8 drops, Frankincense 4 drops, and Wild Orange 5 drops. Mix gently and put 4-6 drops of mixture in to your Lotus diffuser to support anxiety relief.
Cellulite Skin Oil Blend: 4 ounces of Fractionated Coconut Oil, Patchouli 6 drops, Lemon 4 drops, Wild Orange 4 drops, Clary Sage 2 drops, White Fir 2 drops and Peppermint 1 drop. Mix blend and apply generously to the area you want to tighten.
Cool Flash Spray: Patchouli 2 drops, Clary Sage 3 drops, and Peppermint 1 drop in 4 ounces of distilled water with sprayer, Spritz yourself whenever you feel a hot flash coming.
Fluid Retention Massage Formula: Patchouli 4 drops, Coriander 3 drops, Cypress 4 drops, Helichrysum 3 drops, and 1 ounce of Fractionated Coconut Oil. Mix gently and apply in upward motion from ankles up.
Breathe IN the aroma of Patchouli or diffuse for further help with emotional or respiratory issues.
Sunburn Relief Skin Oil: Patchouli 3 drops, Lavender 7 drops, Helichrysum 5 drops, Frankincense 4 drops, 2 ounces of fr. Coconut oil.
Resources we use on a regular basis:
Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Thank you for your sharing with others. Respectfully researched by Dr. Susan Lawton and submitted to support effective usage of doTerra Cypress Essential Oil.

