PEPPERMINT Mentha Piperita (One drop of oil equals 26 cups of Peppermint tea, a little goes a long way)
Peppermint is a creeping plant with fragrant leaves. Steam distilled from leaves, stems, flower and buds. The minty-fresh and slightly camphor-like scent of peppermint is helpful to us in amazing ways.
Blends well with Lavender, Rosemary, Eucalyptus, Rosemary, Cypress, Wild Orange, Basil and White Fir.
Analgesic, antibacterial, anticarcinogenic, ant repellent, antifungal, anti-inflammatory, anti-nausea, antiseptic, antispasmodic, cockroach repellent, digestive aid, driver of other oils, expectorant, fever reducer, headache relief, invigorating, menopause symptom relief, mental clarity, mice repellent, motivating oil, relieve colic, stamina enhancement, and much more.
Peppermint is one of the oldest and most highly regarded herbs for soothing digestion. Jean Valnet, M.D.,, studies Peppermint's effect on the liver and respiratory systems. Other scientists have also researched Peppermint's role in affecting impaired taste and smell when inhaled. Dr. William N. Dember of the Un. of Cincinnati studied Peppermint's ability to improve concentration and mental accuracy.* Alan Hirsch,M.D., studied Peppermint's ability to directly affect the brains satiety center, which triggers a sense of fullness after meals. (We know that it helps reduce appetite and is helpful when used in water for weight reduction).
This oil can help with arthritis, asthma, bronchitis, depression, fatigue, food poisoning, hemorrhoids, hives, hysteria, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), itchy skin, liver issues (promotes regeneration), memory issues, morning sickness, motion sickness, nerves (support and regenerate), radiation exposure, rheumatism, elevate and open sensory system, shock, soothe and cool skin (keeps u cool on really hot days) throat infection, toothaches, tuberculosis, varicose veins and vomiting.
All recommendations are based on doTerra CPTG Products only!
Peppermint oil cools emotions and dissipates anger, hysteria and nervousness. It energizes and relieves mental fatigue, increases Joy, inspires confidence, and selfesteem. It awakens the central nervous system, stimulates the brain, improves memory, and clarifies thought processes. It increases insight and inspires new thoughts and ideas.
Caution: Dilute when a high blood pressure circumstance exists; use minimally. Separate use with homeopathy medicines by ½ hour and drink

lots of water. Safe during pregnancy as long as the person drink lots of water, if new to oils dilute 1:1 Fractionated Coconut Oil and use with good sense.
Suggestions reported to be effective: -Rub 4-6 drops in the palm and rub over stomach and around the navel to relieve
Indigestion, flatulence and diarrhea. -Add a drop of Peppermint Oil to hearbal tea to aid in digestion and relieve heartburn.
-Massage several drops of Peppermint Oil on the area of injury to reduce inflammation.
-Rub Several drops of Peppermint Oil on the bottoms of Feet to reduce Fever.
-Apply several drops of Peppermint Oil on fresh Bruises(dissipates swelling and damaged cells), Bites(stops itching), impact injuries that are on unbroken skin.
-Use Peppermint with Spritzer top diluted with Coconut Oil on Poison Ivy, Poison Oak.
-Apply Peppermint Oil on bones behind ears or on stomach or on wrists for Nausea.
-Inhale Peppermint oil before and during a workout to boost your mood and reduce fatigue.
-Headache apply Peppermint oil on the temples, forehead, over the sinuses (avoid eyes) and on the back of the neck.
-To relieve congestion from cold- 2 drops on tongue and inhale from rubbing on hands.
-Safely added to food as a flavoring and a preservative
-To deter rats, mice, ants and cockroaches, place two drops of Peppermint oil on a cotton ball and place along the path or point of entry for these pests.
-Mix one 15ml. bottle of Peppermint Oil into a 5 gallon can of paint to dispel the fumes.
-One drop on the tongue gives you great smelling breathe.

Decision-Making Diffuser Blend: Clary Sage Oil 20 drops, Basil Oil 10 drops, Cypress Oil 8 drops, Peppermint 6 drops. Gently mix and then put 4-6 drops of blend into Lotus Diffuser.
Memory-Jogger Diffuser Blend: Clary Sage 15 drops, Coriander 10 drops, White Fir 8 drops, Ginger 8 drops and Peppermint 5 drops.
Peppermint is soothing and calming while driving in the car (but helps keep you alert at the same time)--car diffuser very helpful.
As a Study Aid: Peppermint 2 drops, Rosemary 2 drops, Lemon 3 drops ­ rub on the back of the neck while reading or studying for a long time. Put several drops of the blend on cotton balls into a zip-lock bag and inhale during exam or just before entering room.
Study Aid: Coconut Oil 1 tablespoon, Peppermint 5 drops, Bergamot 5 drops, Cypress 3 drops, Cinnamon 2 drops...
Study Aid: Coconut Oil 1 tablespoon, Peppermint 5 drops, Lemon 5 drops, Basil 3 drops, Cypress 2 drops...
Memory: Peppermint drops on cotton ball in zip-lock or ½ ounce cream container and open and breathe in and keep studying or memorizing and breathe in again just before the exam.
Hot Flash Relief: Apply Peppermint oil to wrists and back of neck and then inhale and notice the heat level dropping.
Relief of Impatient or Intolerant Attitude : Bergamot 3 drops, Lavender 2 drops, Peppermint 1 drop.
Circulation-Boosting Bath: ½ cup Epsom salts, Peppermint 2 drops, Cypress 2 drops, Wild Orange 2 drops, White Fir 2 drops. Pour oils into pile of dry Epsom salts at bottom of tub then add water and mix until comfortably warm ­ soak for 15-20 minutes and then gently pat dry.
Overcoming Indifference Bath Blend: ½ cup Epsom salts, Peppermint Oil 2 drops, Basil 4 drops, and Cypress 3 drops.
Fatigue Fighting Blend: ½ cup Epsom salts, Wild Orange 2 drops, Peppermint 2 drops, Rosemary 2 drops, and Thyme 2 drops.
Gum-Strengthening Mouthwash: ¼ teaspoon Epsom salts, 8 ounces of distilled water, Myrrh Oil 2 drops, Melaleuca 3 drops, and Peppermint 2 drops: add oil to Epsom

salts then add water, shake gently and then after brushing teeth use ½ ounce of the mouthwash to thoroughly rinse mouth.
Motion Sickness Inhalant Blend: 10 drops Ginger oil, 10 Drops Peppermint oil, combine and Fill the wick of your inhaler and keep with you. Start inhaling mixture up to an hour before travel and then every ½ hour or as needed. Amazing relief.
Preventive Sports Rub: 1 ounce of coconut oil, Peppermint 2 drops, Rosemary 3 drops, Basil 3 drops, Patchouli 2 drops, Ginger 1 drop. Gently mix blend and then apply to muscles prior to exercise to enhance pain-free exercising and strength enhancement.
Muscle Soreness Blend: Peppermint 3 drops, Cinnamon 4 drops, Geranium 3 drops, Lavender 3 drops, Marjoram 3 drops, and Cypress 2 drops.
Sprain Relief and Repair: Peppermint 5 drops, Cypress 5 drops, Roman Chamomile 5 drops, and Fractionated Coconut Oil 1 tablespoon. Gently mix and apply several times a day to promote relief and repair.
Lice Removing Formula: Ginger 5 drops, Lavender 5 drops, Peppermint 5 drops, and 1 tablespoon of Fractionated Coconut Oil; gently mix and massage the entire formula vigorously into the hair and scalp before bedtime. Wrap towel around the head, and leave it on overnight. Repeat until the lice are gone.
Rich Chocolate Peppermint Brownies: To one box of brownie mix add 2 drops of Peppermint oil.
Breathe More Easily during Aerobics, Sports, and other Exercise: In Glass Spritzer bottle blend: ¼ teaspoon of Epsom Salts in bottom of bottle, add oils and then 2 ounces of filtered water, Lime Oil 25 drops, Peppermint 10 drops, Melaleuca 20 drops, Thyme 10 drops... Before exercising, spray the mists into the air and breathe deeply to help soothe breathing passages.
Resources we use on a regular basis:
Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Respectfully researched and presented for sharing by Dr. Susan Lawton, 2011.

