Purify
Cleansing Blend
Purify is an excellent cleansing blend that can be used everywhere. Kitchen, bathroom, car, hotel rooms, fast food restaurants, after a large crowd experience To rub on your hands and inhale like the On Guard Wipes to keep away unwanted bacteria and viruses. We think of it now to aid in insect bite relief.
Lemon: Anti-Bacterial, Antibiotic, Anti-Infectious, Antiseptic, Antiviral, Astringent, Antidepressant, Anti-Cancer, Diurectic, Disinfectant; effective with lowering blood pressure gently, increases alkalinity, Cleanses tissues and organs, Repels insects and soothes bites and cold sores, Mucus relief.
Lime: Anti-Bacterial, Anti-Cancer, Anti-Rheumatic, Antibiotic, Antiviral, AntiMucus, Strong Disinfectant. Excellent for Skin Injury Recovery, Respiratory Episode Recovery, Reduces Muscle Spasms and Cramps.
Pine: Anti-Bacterial, Anti-Spasmodic, Anti-parasitic, Antiseptic, AntiInflammatory, Improves Circulation, Lice and Flea Repellent; effective in relieving Anxiety, infections in the Lung, Throat, and Sinus areas. Effective lymphatic stimulant and Great for eliminating skin parasites, neutralizes insect toxins when combined with Citronella and Melaleuca.
Citronella: Powerful Antioxidant, Anti-bacterial, Antifungal, Insect Repellent, Anti-Inflammatory, Antispasmodic, Deoderizes and sanitizes, Anti-parasitic (worms), Relaxant; Relieves Respiratory Infections, Muscle/nerve pain, digestive/intestinal problems, anxiety, acne, eczema, and Citronella's Action is a great driver thru the skin.
Melaleuca Alternafolia: Very powerful Antimicrobial activity against all three of the infectious organisms: Bacteria, Viruses and Fungi. Analgesic, AntiInflammatory, Anti-parasitic, Cardiotonic, Neurotonic, Phlebotonic, Insect Repellent and Lice Repellent. Effective to relieve symptoms of asthma, colds, cough, flu, warts, abrasions, dandruff, eczema, seborrhea, sore throats, tonsillitis and whooping cough, earaches, laryngitis,
Cilantro: Analgesic, Anti-Bacterial, Anti-Oxidant, AntiSpasmodic, Digestive Aid, Fungicidal, Revitalizing, and Detoxifying. Works well with Histamine Balancing, Migraine Headaches, Poor Circulation issues, Muscle aches and pains, Stiffness and Sluggish liver issues.

If need to use a compress to cover area for relief always use COLD water Compress for bites.
Great for Spider bites:--apply directly on site and if swelling continues apply Up from the bite ­(if bitten on the hand apply at elbow and above) to enhance circulation through system to neutralize the toxin.
Bath: To soak in a soothing bath ­ ½ cup Epsom salts, 6 drops of Purify added to the Epsom Salts and then make a luke warm bath and soak for only 10 minutes and gently pat dry around the bitten areas.
Diffuse: Home Diffuse: Car Diffuse: Hotel Rooms Diffuse: Office
Bed Bug Bites: Reported on east coast to be effective in quick recovery of skin with no scaring.
Insect Bites and Stings: can apply immediately or even the next day. This blend is good for all skin conditions that seem irritated or assaulted.
Spritz on surface: Use the sprayers to gently apply to really raw or painful areas and let work ­ do not cover with band-aids as the purity of the essential Oils will break down the polymer properties in the band-aids and stick to skin. If need to cover gently wrap with cotton gauze or hankie.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Spritzers, Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to doTerra's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others. Next week we will cover Clary Sage.

