Roman Chamomile
Anthemis Nobilis
Inspires Courage in times of adversity; Calming and Comforting
Caution: Avoid during Pregnancy until Labor begins then it will help!!
Fine feathery leaves of the Roman Chamomile Plant (Anthemis Nobilis) surround tiny daisy like flowers that are white with bright-yellow centers. This perennial plant attains a height of nine to twelve inches. Steam distillation of the flowers renders a yellow essential oil with a sweet warm herbaceous odor. Blends well with Lavender, Rose, Frankincense, Geranium, Basil, Rosemary, Coriander, Ylang Ylang, Marjoram and Clary Sage.
Roman Chamomile is anti-infectious, anti-inflammatory, anti-parasitic, antispasmodic, calming antiseptic, and relaxing. This oil can also help with allergies, bruises, cuts, depression, insomnia, muscle tension, restless legs, and skin conditions like acne, boils, dermatitis, eczema, rashes and sensitive skin. The action of Roman Chamomile as a vasoconstrictor (i.e. it causes small blood-vessels to shrink) can help reduce the redness of cheeks due to enlarged capillaries, though it may be months before any improvement is seen.
For centuries, people have recommended Roman Chamomile for colic, gout, headaches, heartburn, indigestion and loss of appetite, as well as to promote urination and relieve diarrhea. Also has been used to prevent nightmares or to calm a person who has suffered from a nightmare. Roman Chamomile poultices were applied for abscesses, swelling, insect bites, and pain. Roman Chamomile can neutralize allergies and increases the ability of the skin to regenerate. It is a cleanser of the blood and also helps the live to reject poisons and to discharge them.
Roman soldiers used Roman Chamomile Oil for Courage and to treat all injuries and illness when out conquering the world. (Boosted their belief system to win.)
European physicians recommend Roman Chamomile to relieve stress, inflammation, to fight infections and speeds up the healing process over all. Roman Chamomile relieves injuries such as bruises, inflamed tendons, sprains and swollen or over-exerted muscles. It soothes muscle pain and inflamed joints and reduces the discomfort of arthritis, backaches, bursitis, carpal tunnel syndrome, rheumatism and sciatica. In Germany the practioners recommend Roman Chamomile for PMS issues, hormonal depression issues, irritability and stress. It minimizes headache pain including migraines, and effectively relieves symptoms of Candidiasis and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. Roman Chamomile is great for activating the Right Brain.

doTERRA's Roman Chamomile is mild enough to use on infants and children. For centuries, mothers have used Roman Chamomile to calm crying children, ease earaches, fight fevers, soothe stomachaches and colic, and relieve toothaches and teething pain. Roman Chamomile can safely and effectively reduce irritability and minimize nervousness in children, especially hyperactive children.
Emotionally, Roman Chamomile has a subtle sedative action that is milder than the harsh and potentially habit-forming prescription tranquilizers. Because of its calming and relaxing properties, it can combat depression, insomnia, and stress. It eliminates much of the emotional charge of anxiety, aggression, irritability and nervousness. Roman Chamomile can dispel anger, stabilize the emotions, and help to release emotions linked to the past. R.C. can silence self-criticism and softens harsh criticism from others. Its nurturing nature allows you to accept compassion from others and especially from yourself. R.C. helps regain composure during times of grief, hysteria, and shock while releasing nervous tension.
If you feel the need to control other people or situations, if you feel frustrated by other people's attempts at controlling you, or if you simply feel out of control, Roman Chamomile can help you and those around you experience relief.
All recommendations shared with this document are effective ONLY with doTERRA CPTG oils!
Asthma: Roman Chamomile a few drops applied to sternum, temples, wrists and back can relieve attack and spasms. (Also great for anxiety relief.)
Inhalant for headache- nighttime: Roman Chamomile 8 drops, Lavender 8 drops, Marjoram 6 drops, Vetiver 1 drop; gently mix the oils and pour into inhalant device available from www.aromatools.com.- then carry with you and inhale prior to sleep ­if awaken with pain during the night again inhale several deep breathes and relax into pain free sleep.
Instant Calm Inhalant: Roman Chamomile 10 drops, Lavender 5 drops, Vetiver3 drops. After gently blending ­ pour into inhalant device and inhale directly as necessary to prevent or minimize hyperactivity.
Nighttime Bath for Easing Aggression: Roman Chamomile 3 drops, Marjoram 3 drops, Ylang Ylang 2 drops, ½ cup Epsom Salts. Mix the oils into the ½ cup Epsom Salts and add to warm bath and soak for 10 minutes. Pat dry.
After-Sports Bath: Epsom Salts 1 cup, Roman Chamomile 3 rops, Marjoram 2 drops, Lavender 3 drops, Helichrysum 1 drop; add oils to Epsom salts and then to warm bath and soak after sports for 10 minutes ­ pat dry.
Menopause-Balancing Bath: 1 cup Epsom salts, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Clary Sage 2 drops, Coriander 1 drop, Geranium 1 drop.

Headache Relief Bath: 1 cup Epsom Salts, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Lavender 2 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Clary Sage 1 drop, Coriander 1 drop.
Soothing Psoriasis Bath: 2 cups Epsom Salts, Roman Chamomile 3 drops, Helichrysum 2 drops, Bergamot 1 drop, White Fir 1 drop.
Cool-Down Compress Blend: Roman Chamomile 6 drops, Clary Sage 6 drops, Lavender 4 drops, Wild Orange 4 drops, Geranium 2 drops, Patchouli 2 drops; Gently blend the oils and then add 2-3 drops of the oil blend to 1 teaspoon of Epsom Salts and add to 1 quart of cool water and apply it to your face, forehead, back of your neck, chest, or other areas of your body to prevent or cool down hot flashes. Keep compress away from your eyes.
Muscle-Strain Compress: 1 quart cold water, 1 teaspoon of Epsom Salts, Roman Chamomile 2 drops and Marjoram 1 drop.
Chronic Pain Compress: Hot water 1 quart, teaspoon of Epsom Salts, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Helichrysum 3 drops. Oils into Epsom salts first always!
Menstrual Cramp Massage Oil: Coconut oil 2 ounces, Roman Chamomile 4 drops, Marjoram 4 drops, Ylang Ylang 4 drops, Cypress 4 drops, Helichrysum 2 drops; Gently blend and massage over your abdomen as needed.
Sunburn Relief Skin Oil: Coconut Oil 2 ounces, Roman Chamomile 4 drops, Lavender 6 drops, Helichrysum 5 drops, Patchouli 3 drops; gently blend the combination and apply to affected areas often.
Earache Relief: Roman Chamomile 3 drops, Basil 2 drops, Ylang Ylang 1 drop; Gently blend in palm of hand and then apply to bones behind the ears and on the ear tissue but not directly into ear; Morning and night until relief.
Nighttime Muscle Relief Oil: Coconut Oil 2 ounces, Roman Chamomile 10 Drops, Marjoram 10 drops, Clary Sage 4 drops, Coriander 4 drops, Ylang Ylang 4 drops. Gently blend and massage over your sore muscle areas prior to sleep.
Stress Soothing Massage Oil Blend: Coconut Oil 2 ounces, Roman Chamomile 4 drops, White Fir 4 drops, Marjoram 3 drops, Frankincense 2 drops, Ylang Ylang 2 drops; gently blend together and massage the oil into your skin daily.
Toothache Oil: Coconut Oil 1 teaspoon, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Melaluca 3 drops, Oregano 1 drop, Peppermint 1 drop; gently blend and apply 1 drop of the mixture on the aching tooth and the surrounding gum as needed.
Baby's Teething Blend: ½ ounce sunflower oil, 1 drop of Roman Chamomile, Gently blend and massage a drop into your baby's gums as needed.

Grief Release Diffuser Blend: Roman Chamomile 15 drops, Bergamot 25 drops, Cypress 6 drops, Marjoram 5 drops; gently blend and then add 4-6 drops to the Lotus diffuser or attach full bottle of blend to Ace Diffuser and allow Healing.
Vaginitis Soothing Oil: Jojobo oil 1 ounce, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Lavender 2 drops, Melaleuca 2 drops, Patchouli 1 drop; apply the oil blend externally to irritated areas several times a day.
Diffuser Blend for Hyperactivity: Roman Chamomile 18 drops, Lavender 18 drops, Sandalwood 10 drops, Rose 4 drops, Clary Sage 8 drops, Thyme 6 drops, Ylang Ylang 6 drops, Coriander 4 drops.
Calming Diffuser Blend: Roman Chamomile 12 drops, Lavender 18 drops, Rose 5 drops, Geranium 12 drops, Clary Sage 10 drops, Ylang Ylang 10 drops.
Tranquil Personal Blend: Coconut Oil 3 tablespoons, Roman Chamomile 4 Drops, Wild Orange 4 drops, Clary Sage 2 drops, Vetiver 1 drop. Gently blend and apply behind the ears and on the wrists as needed.
Compassion Personal Blend: Coconut Oil 3 tablespoons, Roman Chamomile 4 drops, Sandalwood 3 drops, Helichrysum 2 drops.
Serenity Personal Blend: Coconut Oil 3 tablespoons, Roman Chamomile 3 drops, Sandalwood 3 drops, Clary Sage 2 drops, Melissa 2 drops, Rose 1 drop, Wild Orange 1 drops.
Tension Easing Massage Oil: Coconut Oil 1 ounce, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Marjoram 3 drops, Lavender 2 drops, Helichrysum 2 drops; Gently blend oils and massage the mixture over your neck and shoulders to relieve muscular tension. Repeat as necessary.
Normal Hair Conditioning Treatment: Coconut Oil 1 ounce, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Lavender 4 drops, Thyme 1 drop,Ylang Ylang 1 drop; Once or twice a month massage the mixture into your scalp and hair. This will help you maintain your healthy hair and scalp balance. Then shampoo as usual.
Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.

NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to doTerra's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others. Our next oil will be Wintergreen.

