ROSE
Rosa Damascena
Go to www.builddoterra.com and listen to the webinar by Dr. David Hill on the extraordinary quality of the doTerra Rose CPTG Oil. Special processes to obtain the extraordinarily concentrated and pure steam distilled Rose Essential Oil. 2 ½ dozen highest quality roses = 1 modest drop of Rose Oil. Rose Oil works very well with Frankincense 4:1 Rose
Antibacterial, anti-depressive, anti-inflammatory, antiseptic, antiviral, very calming and soothing to heart and body.
Emotional Aspects One modest drop of the extraordinary doTerra Rose Oil applied to the sternum (of one person) or at the base of the throat can affect the entire room of 30-40 people.... Vibrational element so strong it raises the vibrational level of all who come close or even walk thru the room after the Rose endowed person moves on. (Think of a wedding, Bride wears Rose on sternum ­ keeps her elevated and focused to be able to enjoy and remember the whole day ­ others around her also enjoy the sense of wellbeing and elevated vibration.)
Rose Oil supports and soothes the emotions. It lifts depression, eases anxiety and panic, elevates spirits, and reduces stress and tension. It stabilizes mood swings, particularly if they are related to postnatal depression. It calms the nerves and helps to overcome hyperactivity and insomnia. Rose is very helpful with many aspects of grief and prolonged sadness. It helps to eliminate feelings of disappointment, jealous, resentment and anger and can help dissolve emotional blocks standing in the way of happiness. It inspires creativity and intuition.
Rose Oil benefits all skin types, especially mature, sensitive, dry, or damaged skin. It helps restores the moisture balance and smoothes wrinkles. It soothes and comforts psoriasis, eczema, dermatitis, and other skin disorders by reducing inflammation. Works well in healing mouth sores and wounds.
Bath Blend for Dealing with Disappointment: ½ cup Epsom salts, Rose 2 drops, Melissa 1 drop
To relieve Shock: 2 tablespoons Fractionated Coconut Oil, 2 drops Melissa, 2 drops Wild Orange, 1 drop Rose and 1 drop Vetiver
Grief Coping Blend: Frankincense 4 drops, Coriander 2 drops, Rose 1 drop, Cypress 2 drops

Letting Go Personal Blend: 2 tablespoons Fractionated Coconut Oil, Frankincense 4 drops, Myrrh 2 drops, Rose 2 drops, Helichrysum 1 drop, and Roman Chamomile 1 drop
Self Esteem Booster ­ Summer: 2 tablespoons Fractionated Coconut Oil, Rose 1 drop, Ylang Ylang 5 drop, White Fir 4 drops, Peppermint 2 drops
Self Esteem Booster ­ Winter: 2 tablespoons Fractionated Coconut Oil, Rose 1 drop, Cinnamon 1 drop, Basil 3 drops, Myrrh 1 drop, and Lavender 3 drops
Personal Trusting Blend: 2 tablespoons Fractionated Coconut Oil, Roman Chamomile 3 drops, Lemon 2 drops, Melissa 2 drops, and Rose 1 drop
Sweet Dreams Pillow Spray: ¼ teaspoon Epsom salts, 4 ounces distilled water, Lavender 3 drops, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Rose 2 drops, Wild Orange 1 drop
Working in End of Life Care the special combination of Rose 2 drops, Frankincense 8 drops and Lavender 3 drops, is excellent for the person preparing to transition as well as the Care Givers and the visitors and family members. This can be diffused or applied to the bones behind the ears or on the sternum. This will inspire feelings of trust and peace and relieve anxiety for all participating.
Frankincense 4 drops, Rose 1 drop mixed and applied sparingly on the forehead (on bones behind the ears or on the pillows) of the Person transitioning will allow for clarity and focus so that communication can be enhanced in spite of pain killers.
After the birth of a premature baby, wearing Frankincense 4 drops and Rose 1 drop on hands and on bones behind the ears of parent holding newborn ­ amazing rapid connections happen for the new infant ­ ears, lungs, brain, heart ­ moves all participants into state of expecting positive growth and "normalcy" as opposed to a list of fears and hysteria...
Information shared in this document by Dr. Susan Lawton is from research and practice; there are many more effective combinations of doTerra CPTG Oils than are listed here. NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Thank you for your sharing with others.

