Rosemary
Rosmarinus officinalis
Reinforcing the Heart and Empowering the Mind
Caution: During pregnancy, have high blood pressure or epilepsy - use very little on a regular basis; use only with lots of extra water to carry away unwanted toxins. (like in homoeopathy, a substance which, in large amounts, would provoke a symptom, can be used in tiny amounts to treat it).
Cascades of Rosemary emit a pungent, pine-like aroma with a woody, camphoraceous note. The aromatic shrub has scaly bark and dense leathery, needlelike leaves. Tiny pale-blue blossoms abound from December through Spring. Rosemary can grow to heights of five to six feet. Steam distillation of 100 pounds of Rosemary in bloom will yield 1 pound of strong, clean, and potent Rosemary Oil. It blends well with Bergamot, Basil, Balance, Frankincense, Melissa, Myrrh, Patchouli, Geranium, Peppermint, Thyme, Wild Orange and Ylang Ylang.
In flower lore, Rosemary means "remembrance," possibly because of it ability to improve memory. The popularity of Rosemary dates back before the Greeks went out to explore and conquer the known world. Historically, France used Rosemary to flavor ale and wine and the ancient Romans used it to ward off evil spirits. Normalizes low blood pressure, perking up the brain.
Another study shows positive asthma treatment. Clinical testing show Rosemary Oil possesses marked antibacterial, antifungal and antiviral properties including activity against certain bacteria including Staphylcoccus aureus, S. albus, Vibrio cholerae, Escherichia coli, and Corynebacteria. Recent studies indicate that Rosemary Oil can seriously discourage the spread of cancer cells. ** Further published research has reported positive results in using Rosemary Oil to treat AIDS related Cryptococcal Meninigitis and Pneumonia. ***
Rosemary is an Adrenal cortex stimulant, analgesic, anti-arthritic, antibacterial, anticancer, anticatrrhal, antifungal, anti -infectious,(especially staph and strep), anti-inflammatory, antispasmodic, antioxidant, anti-parasitic, antiseptic, is an astringent, colitis, diuretic, great expectorant of cloggy sticky mucous, (Respiratory System and Digestive System both).
It aids in the relief of asthma, bronchitis, colds, sinusitis and whooping cough. It is a stimulant of gall bladder, Liver (Cirrhosis healer) and stomach, improves circulation and is warming when applied to back and feet. Migraines and muscle spasms can be relieved promptly with direct application in some cases. Rosemary oil also stimulates cell renewal.
Rosemary tones the entire body (like the First Chair Concert Violinist warming up the orchestra) and aids as a way to treat candida albicans, chronic fatigue syndrome, and weakened immunity. It soothes the itching and inflammation of psoriasis, eczema, and other types of dermatitis.
Rosemary oil is amazing for tired, stiff or overworked muscles. I have used it very successfully in treating dancers and athletes, particularly long distance runners, using Rosemary Oil in

combination with other oils before training or competitive events, and Lavender, usually combined with Marjoram, for massage after training or competing.
Rosemary Oil has been used historically for rinsing dark hair, and as a scalp friction, which is valuable for excessive hair loss or poor condition, especially when these follow a period of illness or convalescence.
Skin: Improves dry or mature skin, eases lines and wrinkles, and heals burns and wounds. Rosemary can also clear acne blemishes or dull, dry skin by fighting bacteria and regulating oil secretions.
Many find rosemary very effective with Dandruff, thinning hair, head lice,(with lavender and on guard). Add a number of drops of Rosemary to doTerra's Sanobella Shampoo and allow to suds up and let soak in for at least 5 minutes. Use the Conditioner with Lavender added and again let soak in for at least 5 minutes then rinse.
All Suggestions Presented Are Recommended Using Only doTERRA CPTG Essential Oils!!
Other common health and wellness uses include: calm and stress relief, cold and flu, hair care, arthritic pain, asthma, bronchitis, diarrhea.
Rosemary Oil helps to overcome mental fatigue and sluggishness by stimulating and strengthening the central nervous system. It enhances mental clarity while aiding alertness and concentration. Rosemary can help you cope with stressful conditions and see things from a clearer perspective. It relaxes nerves and restores nerve health, especially after long-term nervous or physical ailments (chemotherapy, Peripheral Neuropathy, MS, Lou Gehrig's disease, Epstein Barr). Overcomes nervous exhaustion while restoring vitality and optimism. It lifts spirits and counters depression. It also balances intense emotions, such as aggression and anger, and moderates mood swings.
Rosemary Oil opens the Heart and Brings the Wisdom and Discrimination necessary to establish healthy boundaries in relationships while retaining Individuality.
Rosemary Oil will renew enthusiasm and bolster self-confidence, it is an age-old remedy for apathy and gloom. Rosemary is well suited to the cold, debilitated individual who has a poor self-worth and who lacks a strong healthy ego that values its place in the world. It warms the spirit and makes you bold. It enhances the spiritual dedication of love rather than the experience of romantic ecstasy. As an herb of remembrance, it helps us not only to recall loved ones but to remember our own true path.
Rosemary Oil arouses ambition and drive to achieve, and strengthens willpower and confidence. It has been reported to help in overcoming impotence. (Ingesting and applying to the lower abdomen with coconut oil on a regular basis).

Diffuse for eliminating negative influences (Greeks and Romans all did it) and germs from the air, stimulating memory and opening the conscious mind. If children suffer from bad dreams or nightmares diffusing Rosemary creates restful sleep.
Typical application: Use in compresses and baths when trying to sooth stiff joints, arthritis or rheumatism. Use diffusion or other methods of inhalation when treating colds, flu and as a mind stimulant. Rosemary is GRAS and can be taken internally. Rosemary has had positive effects being applied neat or with a carrier oil to the scalp, face or neck for skin or hair/scalp disorders.
*Compiled from: Aromatherapy by Roberta Wilson; and Aromatherapy by Keller and Modern Essentials from Aroma Tools.com **Soliman et al (1994) ***Published results easily found on line and with our friend Nicole Stevens. & Harvard Un. Med. School (2004)
Suggested protocols:
Diffuse: Rosemary Oil ­ 4-6 drops in Lotus Diffuser, reduces opportunity for airborne infections to be shared
Recipes: see www.EverythingEssential.Me
Gout: Rosemary 4 drops, Cypress 6 drops, Lemon 5 drops, Lavender 5 drops gently mix and apply directly several times a day, use the Vitality Pack everyday and drink more water daily.
Rheumatic and Muscular Pain: Rosemary Oil 5 drops, Lavender 4 drops, Cypress 4 drops, Basil 3 drops, Lemon 2 drops, gently blend and apply directly several times a day
Warm Compress for Muscular Pain: 1 quart of hot water, 1 teaspoon of Epsom salts ­ Rosemary 2 drops, Ginger 2 drops, Peppermint 1 drop; add oils to Epsom salts and then the hot water and gently blend then use clean cotton material rung out and then laid across sore areas and keep dunking, ringing and applying.
Warm Compress for Migraine Headaches: 1 quart of hot water, 2 tablespoons Epsom salts, Rosemary 4 drops, Roman Chamomile 3 drops, Lavender 2 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Clary Sage 1 drop. Mix oils into Epsom salts and then add hot water and use cotton cloth to dip in mixture and apply to back of neck and keep dipping and applying for 20 minutes.
Dandruff and Scalp Disorders: 3 tablespoons Epsom salts, Rosemary 5 drops, Grapefruit 2 drops into Epsom salts and then add to 2 quarts of water and use to rinse hair and scalp.
Breath Easier Blend: Coconut Oil 1 ounce, Rosemary Oil 2 drops, Wild Orange 3 drops, Ginger 2 drops Eucalyptus 4 drops, blend together and apply to chest and neck.

Cellulite Bath Blend: 2 tablespoons of Epsom Salts, Rosemary 2 drops, Grapefruit 4 drops, Cypress 2 drops Lemon 3 drops, add oils to epsome salts and then add water to temp. you like and soak for 15 min.
Sinus Foot Bath: dish tub, 2 tablespoons of Epsom salts, Rosemary 2 drops, Ginger 1 drop, White Fir 1 drop, Mix oils into Epsom salts Then add water, stir and soak feet for 10-15 minutes.
Fatigue-Fighting Bath: 2 tablespoons of Epsom salts, Rosemary 2 drops, Wild Orange 4 drops, Thyme 2 drops, Peppermint 2 drops; add oils to Epsom salts and then add bath water to proper temp. inhale and relax..
Stimulating Anti-Depression Bath: 2 tablespoons of Epsom Salts, Rosemary 3 drops, Geranium 2 drops, White Fir 2 drops; add oils to the Epsom salts and then add bath water to proper temp and enjoy inhaling deeply...
Circulation-Boosting Body Oil: 2 ounces of Coconut oil, Rosemary 7 drops, Lemon 4 drops, Geranium 3 Drops, Myrrh 3 drops, Ginger 2 drops, Vetiver 1 drop. Mix gently and apply from the ankles up...
Bad Cholesterol Relief: Rosemary 3 drops, Lavender 3 drops, Lemon 1 drop in capsule 3 times a day for 21 days and have levels rechecked ­ also use Vitality Pack Each day.
Focus: Rosemary 1 drop,Wild Orange 2 drops, apply to wrists prior to long drives or tests.
Varicose veins in legs: Cypress 5 drops, Rosemary 5 drops, Patchouli 2 drops. Mix gently and apply from ankles up several times a day...keep up past the relief of pain to facilitate body carrying off unwanted cells and drink pleanty of water.
Spider Veins other areas: Rosemary 5 drops, Lavender 2 drops
Relieve Forgetfulness: Basil 2 drops, Lemon 1 drops, Rosemary 1 drop
Discouraged and Dejected: Thyme 2 drops, Rosemary 2 drops
Lonely and Forlorn: Rosemary 2 drops, Myrrh 1 drop, Marjoram 3 drop
Dispirited and Disheartened: Rosemary 4 drops, Ginger 1 drop Vague and Indecisive: Clary Sage 3 drops, Rosemary 2 drops
As a Study Aid: Rosemary 4 drops, Peppermint 1 drop, Roman Chamomile 1 drop
Sore throat: Apply on the outside; Rosemary 3 drops, Patchouli 2 drops
Sour Stomach: Rosemary 3 drops, Ginger 1 drop, 1 teasp. coconut oil, rub on stomach

Vicks type rub: In a base of 1 tbps of virgin organic coconut oil, add 2 drops Melaleuca, 4 drops Eucalyptus, 5 drops Rosemary, 4 drops Peppermint and 3 drops Cypress.
Major Immune system Tune Up: Rosemary 7 drops, Eucalyptus 4 drops, Lemon 4 drops, Cinnamon 2 drops, Clove Bud 3 Drops, Lavender 3 drops; gently blend and apply to the feet 4 nights in a row.
COPD: use the Immune System Tune Up on the bottoms of the feet and then apply to the top of each foot between the Big Toe and the next toe. Rub the ridge with additional Rosemary moving from the ankle bone down to between the toes and be gentle as this could be a very sensitive area. Do both feet and then put on thick warm socks and allow Frankincense and Rosemary to be diffused and relief will be evident.
Heat Treat Liniment: I have used this with surprising results in recovering atrophied muscle tissue, stiff joints, assisting recovery from misdiagnosis of ALS and Parkinson's Symptoms. Even for seriously senior clients who had been inactive for years ­ got those kinks out and got up and moving again;
Yield: a little over 2 ounces of oil 8 drops each of Rosemary Oil, Peppermint Oil, & Eucalyptus Oil add 4 drops each of Cinnamon oil and Clove Bud Oil 1 ½ ounces of coconut oil Combine ingredients in a glass bottle with a tight lid Shake and apply a few times a day for 3 days on, skip a day and resume. Shake the mixture before you use it each time. Remember to drink lots of water also.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to doTERRA's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others.

