SERENITY
(CALMING BLEND)
Serenity is an amazing blend that was created to offer deep soothing of mental and emotional states. Users of Serenity can expect deep relaxation and a much more restful sleep. Serenity is appropriate for all ages and in many situations that call for calmer, cooler heads to prevail. For true recovery and relief of a condition, the CPTG oils of doTerra are recommended. Over-the-counter remedies from your drug store or a grocery store are intended for a one time usage or a once in a while usage. The chemicals in OTC medications can "whip" the cells of your body systems into some action that will clear up most of a symptom - but they also leave debris behind that is not good for you. OTC medications do not treat a condition in a health recovery manner. In fact, continued use of over-the-counter medications will likely not necessarily heal what is causing you dis-ease or your unpleasant condition. Please use doTerra CPTG oils to insure true quantum healing with no negative side effects.
LAVENDER: Adaptagentic oil ­ helps all other oils work well together; enhances the recipe for wellness and allows the aspects of mother nature to combine to make the blend elements rise to their highest best good within the body systems. Relieves stress, anxiety, and insomnia, relieves pain of insect bites, soothes skin (when burned or harassed it returns to perfect balance when skin heals, natural anti-histamine for allergies and for mucous issues, relieves muscle cramping, soothing to skin and sinuses; antibacterial, antidepressant, calmative, relieves headaches and anxiety.
SWEET MARJORAM: Analgesic, antibacterial, antibiotic, antidepressant, anti-fungal, antiinfectious, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antispasmodic, antiseptic, antiviral, blood pressure stabilizer, calmative, digestive stimulant, expectorant, neurotonic, tones the intestines, sedative and relaxing agent.
ROMAN CHAMOMILE: anti-infectious, anti-inflammatory, anti-parasitic, antispasmodic, calming, antiseptic, and relaxing. For centuries, people have recommended Roman Chamomile for colic, gout, headaches, heartburn, indigestion and loss of appetite, as well as to promote urination and relieve diarrhea. Also has been used to prevent nightmares or to calm a person who has suffered from nightmares. It soothes muscle pain and inflamed joints and reduces the discomfort of arthritis, backaches, bursitis, carpal tunnel syndrome, rheumatism and sciatica. In Germany, the clinicians recommend Roman Chamomile for PMS issues, hormonal depression issues, irritability and stress.
YLANG YLANG: lowers high blood pressure, mood enhancer, calmative during season changes; slow down rapid heartbeat (tachycardia) and over-rapid breathing; releases pressure of heavy anger, especially if used as rage begins, to assist in personal control. It brings back the feeling of self-confidence and personal appreciation and cracks open door on JOY.
SANDALWOOD: antibacterial, anti-infectious, pulmonary antiseptic, sore throat and respiratory recovery by application to throat and chest, UTI infection relief, can be sedative; extremely kind

to all skin types and healing of skin issues; inspires self belief and "can do" attitude; mind tonic and brain detox to help with cloudy mind; supports harmony of the emotions and eases nervous tension.
VANILLA BEAN: Is calming and may help ease tension.
Protocols: Suggestions presented here are effective and safe only with DOTERRA's CPTG oils!
Diffuse Serenity for anxiety. Diffuse Serenity for grief relief. Diffuse Serenity for emotionally "stuck" circuit in the brain ­ free up heavy circle thinking. Diffuse Serenity before meetings where people are coming together for the first time to set up a program or to plan an event so that the many talents within the group may compliment each other. Diffuse Serenity for homebound elderly or very ill patients that they may have mental clarity and soothing restful sleep.
You as a diffuser: Wear Serenity on the bones behind your ears as a lovely perfume and while you move around and live you relieve others of stress because they can enjoy your fragrance ­ plus you will stay calm. Works well in office situations where some people normally are crabby to relieve crabby attitude.
Sleep: Rub a drop of Serenity between your palms and smooth on your pillow to help w/sleep. Serenity works so well when people figure out how much to use to assist a good night's sleep that people are cheerfully giving up prescription medication as sleep aids.
Asthma: Apply Serenity to the chest and bottoms of the feet for relief.
Skin conditions: Serenity applied to various skin conditions provides great healing and repair. Works with skin rough areas and anti-aging conditioning of the skin. Helps to repair old scars to reduce scar tissue.
PMS or Hormone imbalance of middle age: Serenity applied to the sides of the ankles by your Achilles Heal to support balance and relief of cranky or super-cranky. For aggressive precycle symptoms of PMS mix with 2 drops of Clary Sage and 2 drops of Serenity ­apply to the same area for the days prior.
Aroma Touch Hand Technique: Using the technique, apply Serenity when the hand has been relaxed and gently rub into palm and fingers ­ amazing overall whole body relaxation.
COPD: Serenity 4 drops applied to bottoms of feet and tops of feet between the big toe and the First index toe ­ DiGestZen 4 drops on the core around the stomach ­ creates such great relief ­

Especially if have to attend a wedding or funeral and then have heavy meal and excitement of event. (Can put Serenity into an inhaler and still use the DiGestZen on the tummy or have them ingest it.)
Chronic Bronchitis: Alternate Serenity and Breathe on chest ­ 2 drops of each and on the throat. Use for the nagging cough at nighttime and for relief of infection.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to doTerra's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others. Our next oil will be Fennel the Wednesday after convention ­ October 26th, 2011.

