SOLACE (doTERRA Women) 10 ml. Roll On
MONTHLY ESSENTIAL OIL BLEND
SOLACE is a proprietary blend of Certified Pure Therapeutic Grade essential oils that have been traditionally used to balance hormones and manage symptoms of PMS and the transitional phases of menopause. SOLACE is a topical blend Clary Sage, Lavender, Bergamot, Roman Chamomile, Cedarwood, Ylang Ylang, Geranium, Fennel, Carrot Seed, Palmarosa, and Vitex that provides temporary respite from emotional swings sometimes associated with regular hormone cycles in women.
SOLACE has proven effective for many people in many stages of growth and recovery from hormone challenges - early teen, changes affected by consumption of birth control pills, post delivery or post partum depression, premenopause, etc.
Menopause occurs for most women in their late forties and early fifties. Some women are relatively symptom-free, but many suffer from excessively heavy periods, hot flashes, depression and insomnia. Imbalances induced by surgical, chemical or radiation therapies can be supported by Solace - in males and females.
doTERRA oils are from Mother Nature and are clean and positively affect the chemistry of the human body when used gently and consistently.
It has been my experience that the formula is amazing and that a little bit works well; you can always add more after 5 minutes to reduce aggressive monthly symptoms.
The following information is general information on the oils listed as ingredients in this graceful blend. This is a Proprietary Blend and doTERRA has the secret formula. I have no knowledge of the ratios used - I just love the Blend.
CLARY SAGE: Anticonvulsive, antidepressant, antifungal, anti-infectious, antiseptic, anti-spasmodic, anti-inflammatory, astringent, nerve tonic, sedative, soothing and warming.
Clary Sage is good for: bronchitis, cholesterol, eye problems (blurred vision, tired or strained eyes), hemorrhoids, hormonal imbalance, impotence, infections, intestinal cramps, menstrual cramps, PMS, Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, Candidiasis reduction, Cell regulation, circulatory problems, depression, insect bits, insomnia, kidney disorders, dry skin, throat infections, sleeping issues, ulcers and whooping cough.

Estrogen and its important function within the human body is one of those controversial topics due to some myths and serious miss-information that is bantered about by various profit-centered industries. Please take the time to view the webinars Dr. David Hill and Justin Harrison have put together on Hormones ­ www.doterrasuccessmap.com - Page 6 of the Webinars section for clarity on how the miracle that is the human body heals itself. DoTERRA's Clary Sage has only 1% phytoestrogen as part of its make up, which is a wonderful way to support the cell receptor sites during hormone balancing and cell reproduction ­ a very gentle support.
1-naturally produced Estrogen within the body 2-Xenoestrogens--man-made, in our foods, air, etc.-elements that block receptor sites of cells causing ­ body's natural functions to cease, unhealthy debris gathers and hangs out creating environment for Diseases to thrive, etc., 3-Phytoestrogen ­ Plant world, food sources, gentle encouragement for the body to do it's natural job ­ gradually support and improve functions of hormone system rather than block sites and cause deterioration of system. -doTERRA's Clary Sage is pure and healthful for our systems in a balanced way ­ to support Mother Nature's Miracles within our bodies. (Please take the time to view the webinars to get a complete explanation-thank you)
LAVENDER: Adaptagentic oil ­ helps all other oils work well together; enhances the recipe for wellness and allows the aspects of mother nature to combine to make the blend elements rise to their highest best good within the body systems. Relieves stress, anxiety, and insomnia, relieves pain of insect bites, soothes skin (when burned or harassed it returns to perfect balance when skin heals, natural anti-histamine for allergies and for mucous issues, relieves muscle cramping, soothing to skin and sinuses; antibacterial, antidepressant, calmative, relieves headaches and anxiety.
BERGAMOT: antispasmodic, antiseptic, anti-parasitic, fever reducer, UTI relief, refreshing and uplifting, sedative, anti-bacterial, analgesic, balances anxiety and diminishes depression, anti-inflammatory, relieves intestinal parasites, reduces vaginal Candida, great for emotional balance. Bergamot's balancing properties help minimize the tendency toward compulsive or obsessive behavior. During times of sadness or grief, Bergamot oil helps to heal emotional wounds and can inspire or restore loving feelings.
ROMAN CHAMOMILE: anti-infectious, anti-inflammatory, anti-parasitic, antispasmodic, calming, antiseptic, and relaxing. For centuries, people have recommended Roman Chamomile for colic, gout, headaches, heartburn, indigestion and loss of appetite, as well as to promote urination and relieve diarrhea. Also has been used to prevent nightmares or to calm a person who has suffered from nightmares. It soothes muscle pain and inflamed joints and reduces the discomfort of arthritis, backaches, bursitis, carpal tunnel syndrome,

rheumatism and sciatica. In Germany, the clinicians recommend Roman Chamomile for PMS issues, hormonal depression issues, irritability and stress.
CEDARWOOD: anti-fungal, anti-infectious, antiseptic (respiratory and urinary) astringent, diuretic, sedative, relieves nervous tension, relieves irritability and supports learning broader vision and enables grasping of hard concepts, focus enhancing and motivating.
YLANG YLANG: lowers high blood pressure, mood enhancer, calmative during season changes; slow down rapid heartbeat (tachycardia) and over-rapid breathing; releases pressure of heavy anger- especially if used as rage begins, to assist in personal control. It brings back the feeling of self-confidence and personal appreciation and cracks open door on JOY.
GERANIUM: reduces candidiasis (single-celled fungus), improves immune system and is helpful as a stimulant for both lymphatic and circulatory systems.
Geranium is a great balancer, due to it being an adrenal cortex stimulant, and helps regulate moods. Great for women having trouble getting pregnant and for symptoms of menopause because of its ability to support hormone balance. It is one of the most useful essential oils to help eliminate cellulite. Geranium is often included in lymphatic drainage massage blends.
Geranium is a hormonal balancer, it encourages self-expression, increases confidence, and helps overcome the fear of speaking, particularly in public. It promotes harmony in male-female relationships by balancing aggressive and passive tendencies and by improving intimate communication. Geranium heightens sensitivity to pleasurable sensations and enjoyable activities. It liberates creativity, revitalizes imagination, and invites spontaneity.
FENNEL: Fennel is a good urinary-tract antiseptic, excellent for alleviating flatulence and digestive problems, Local massage combined with drinking Fennel Tea is recommended. Fennel is very supportive of the respiratory system in that it can relieve coughs and nervous asthma. Fennel helps eliminate water retention issues, cellulite and obesity if enough water is consumed on a regular basis (both apply topically and ingest with Tea several times a day) - makes happy Kidneys and Spleen.
Fennel is very effective in assisting in counterbalancing alcoholic poisoning, and it has played an important part in the treatment and rehabilitation of alcoholics. It also can be helpful with gout, arthritis, etc. to prevent the build-up of toxic wastes in the body, which precede the inflammatory condition of the joints. Fennel can also be helpful in reducing appetite between meals or when working thru recovering from an addiction. Excellent in reducing unwanted waste collected in pockets within the body and with Cellulite gatherings.

Dr. D. Hill shared his enthusiasm for Sweet Fennel at the convention (2011) in letting us know that our Sweet Fennel has compounds that are anti-inflammatory, anti-carcinogestic, positive hormone activity within the body to support hormonal balance - male and female - amazing positive support for gastro-intestinal and urinary tract systems. Psychologically, Fennel is protecting, warming and grounding. A few drops rubbed between the palms of the hand and inhaling has an amazing positive effect inside and out.
CARROT SEED: blood cleanser, liver tonic and cleanser, great for pulmonary conditions, inflammation reduction, soothing the nervous system, gallbladder problems relieved, anti-spasmodic, skin issues corrected,
PALMAROSA: anti-bacterial, anti-infectious, it can help fight the pain, discomfort and infection of cystitis, urethritis and vaginitis; cools fevers, and eases the discomforts of colds and flu, relieves malaise, promotes recovery from mental fatigue, nervous exhaustion or stress. It cams and uplifts the emotions while refreshing the mind and clarifying thoughts. It reduces stress and tension and encourages feelings of freedom and flexibility. It expands feelings of love and romance by discouraging the oppressive nature of insecurity, jealous and possessiveness.
VITEX: more than 2000 years ago Hippocrates recommended the use of the leaves and seeds of this tree (Chaste tree) for female issues and physical problems with great success. Anti-inflammatory, balances hormones, relieves heavy menstrual cramping and flow, teas made of this oil were taken to cleanse the intestinal tract, soothe hemorrhoids, and relieve headaches, relieve joint pain and muscular aches and pains of rheumatism and arthritis; used thru the ages to balance sexual desire. Neurotonic (that is being researched for Parkinson's Disease and Seizure Disorder Syndrome) Works with regulating and toning the female reproductive system through its action on the pituitary. Reported to restore ovarian function, helps bring the whole body back into balance after discontinuing birth-control pills. During menopause, reported to relieve symptoms of confusion, depression, hot flashes, irregularity, irritability and nervousness.
Application recommendations to work to consistent balancing - choose one or more: Daily roll on wrists or on the outside of the ankles each morning and each evening... use on bones behind the ears, use on inside of the forearms, use in response to feelings in a timely manner - across abdomen for cramps, on the temples for headaches or to clear mind and reduce brain fog, diffusing for mixed group for lifting moods...
Men also can benefit from the use of Solace, besides the obvious implications of restoring the emotional balance and harmony, peace and sense of stability in women in their lives who use Solace to regulate menstrual cycles and

fluctuations in hormone levels, men can use Solace to relieve sexual anxiety...It may also help balance hormone levels in both men and women. Men can use Solace for mental stability and mood lifting under certain conditions; i.e. where hormone issues are precipitated by long term consumption of soda drink products; hormone imbalances are detected thru testing, many people of all ages are meeting chemical challenges due to food additives so doTERRA Products can support recovery to balance.
Bone Nutrient Lifetime Complex with the Phytoestrogen Lifetime Complex capsules are amazing with our Vitality pack for total balance from new cell to new bone - quality longevity - so more healthy choices can go on for as long as cells allow.
Women have reported that their postmenopausal symptoms have recovered and they are stronger and more optimistic, women on HRT are reporting that the combination from doTERRA is such a wonderful "fountain of youth" enhancer for body and mind.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc. NOTE: The advice shared in document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Respectfully researched and presented for sharing on by Dr. Susan Lawton, 2012.- questions for the next oil may be submitted to slawton1@optonline.net - no personal reply will happen but if the question asked is appropriate info for many people we will cover at the end of the next oil week. Our next oil will be Lavender, the Mother of Essential Oils.

