TerraShield
Repellent Blend
Very small amount is very effective for 4-6-hours
Caution: Do not use in Eyes, Ears or Mouth; Do Not use over Cuts, Wounds or Irritated skin!! Recommended for External Use Only!!! (www.mydoterra.com - back office- business tools-product info sheets) TerraShield is a proprietary blend of Certified Pure Therapeutic Grade Essential Oils including Lemon, Eucalyptus(Eucalyptus Citriodora), Citronella (Cumbopoon nardus), and Lemongrass (Cymbopogon flexuosus), with 12 other carefully balanced oils blended in a base of 100% pure fractionated coconut oil. TerraShield `s fresh, light citrus smell is wonderfully invigorating and can be used safely by everyone in the family without worry. (No DEET)
Lemon: Anti-Bacterial, Antibiotic, Anti-Infectious, Antiseptic, Antiviral, Astringent, Antidepressant, Anti-Cancer, Diurectic, Disinfectant; effective with lowering blood pressure gently, increases alkalinity, Cleanses tissues and organs, Repels insects and soothes bites and cold sores, Mucus relief.
Eucalyptus Citriodora: Anti-Bacterial, Analgesic, Antiviral, Antifungal, Expectorant and Insecticidal; Effective in cases involving Ringworm, Candida, Shingles and Herpes Simplex; Great in assisting recovery from insect bites when combined with Citronella and Lemon Oils.
Citronella: Powerful Antioxidant, Anti-bacterial, Antifungal, Insect Repellent, Anti-Inflammatory, Antispasmodic, Anti-parasitic (worms), Relaxant; Relieves Respiratory Infections, Muscle/nerve pain, digestive/intestinal problems, anxiety, acne, eczema, and Citronella's Action is a great driver thru the skin.
Lemongrass: Antifungal, Antibacterial, Anti-parasitic, Anti-Inflammatory, regenerates connective tissues and ligaments, dilates blood vessels, improves circulation promotes lymph flow, excellent digestive aid, great for infection relief in the respiratory system, reduces fluid retention.
TerraShield is an amazing blend that requires very little to discourage many insect pests for several hours. Get spritzer tops to attach to bottle of TerraShield to gently spray a small amount on the ankles and then brush up the leg with the finger tips to ward off pests. (www.AromaTools.com)

So effective people have reported that towels used to wipe fingertips with after spreading TerraShield on the body still discourage pests from picnic scene a few days later.
Apply to the back of neck or a gentle spritz in a little cloud above the head and spin around and let TerraShield settle on head, hair, shoulders when going for a walk at sundown to disperse the gnats, mosquitoes, flying biters hoping for a simple nip of you before sleep.
Spritz around fireplace edges at change of season to discourage spiders. Spritz around drains in the basement and in old houses around where the radiator pipes come up thru the wooden floor to discourage silverfish when rainy season hits.
When gardening and yard clean up after a rain remember to spritz your bare arms and back of your legs to discourage the mosquitoes. Kids camping, even in late fall be sure to have TerraShield packed to spray around sleeping area to discourage spiders looking for a warm meal.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Spritzers, Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to doTerra's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others. Next week we will cover Clary Sage.

