Thyme
Thymus Vulgaris
Courage, Inspiration and Motivation
Caution: Avoid during pregnancy, always dilute for sensitive skin (1:4), children under 35 pounds dilute (1:5); use with caution if high blood pressure diagnosed: very warm oil!!
Thyme is a hardy perennial shrub, growing to a height of 3 to 15 inches, with hairy, pointed grey-green leaves and small, white-to-lilac flowers. Ancient Sumerians used Thyme some 3,500 years ago as an aromatic fragrance, the Ancient Egyptians used it as part of the embalming process, while the Greeks made use of Thyme as a culinary herb. They also used it to disinfect the air and to prevent the spread of disease. Greeks also believed that the herb and oil inspired courage. Roman soldiers bathed in Thyme Oil before battle, and in the Middle Ages sprigs of Thyme were woven into the scarves of the knights departing for the Crusades.
Thyme Oil is produced by steam distilling (usually 2 step distilling to extract the irritants and maximize the benefits) the leaves and flowering tops. Thyme blends well with: Frankincense, Geranium, Rosemary, Oregano, Lavender, White Fir, Melaleuca, Lemon and other citruses.
Thyme is antibacterial, anti-infectious, anti-parasitic, anti-rheumatic, antispasmodic, anti-viral, digestive stimulant, diuretic (mild), expectorant, hypertensive, neurotonic, sexual tonic, kidney tonic, skin tonic, mood lifter, mind balancer, and energizer.
Thyme is also effective in improving the following conditions: Pneumonia, Colds, Cough, Congestion and/or infection of the lungs, tonsillitis, laryngitis, asthma, eases abdominal distention, and relieves intestinal gas. It can benefit chronic fatigue, shallow breathing, infections of the bladder and kidneys, Anthrax, chronic coughs, and bronchitis, especially when there is a wet cough. Flu symptoms are relieved along with the chills and the muscular aches and pains. Other areas that Thyme has proven effective; infectious colitis, cystitis, dermatitis, pleurisy, psoriasis, sciatica, tuberculosis, vaginal candida, depression, digestion, physical weakness after illness, headaches, immunological functions, insomnia, snoring, wounds and viruses along the spine.
Thyme combats infection and improves immunity by increasing the production of white blood cells. European physicians prescribe Thyme Oil for bronchitis, colds, coughs, the flu, laryngitis, sinusitis, sore throats, tonsillitis and whooping cough. Thyme reduces the inflammation and irritation of skin disorders such as acne and psoriasis, as well as eczema and other types of dermatitis. It can accelerate the healing of bruises, burns, cuts, sores, and wounds.

Thyme Oil stimulates menstrual flow, it increases circulation and can elevate low blood pressure. It can relieve the pain of arthritis, sore muscles, sprains and injuries and it can ease the pain of headaches, including migraines. Thyme Oil also helps fight athlete's foot and jock itch.
Nicole Stevens research and published research out of Germany confirms that Thymus Vulgaris Is effective with inhibiting reproduction of Cancer cells in the human body without damage to the normal healthy tissues of our physiology.
Emotionally, Thyme Oil can be effective with poor self-confidence, apathy, and fear. Thyme can strengthen your nerves when you are experiencing emotional fatigue. It eases nervousness, stress, and some stress-related complaints. It can reduce the severity or frequency of anxiety attacks. It enhances memory and increases concentration. Whether demoralized, apprehensive, or alienated reach for Thyme's warm and virile strength. It is great for diffusing before events to clear the air both of infectious germs and provide clarity and focus for the attendees.
Thyme Oil is stimulating, although when used in a bath, it helps overcome insomnia.
All Recommendations and Suggestions are effective only with doTerra's CPTG oils!!!!
Diffuser Blend For Hyperactivity: Thyme 6 drops, Lavender 18 drops, Roman Chamomile 16 drops, Sandalwood 10 drops, Clary Sage 8 drops, Ylang-Ylang 8 drops, Coriander 8 drops, Frankincense 6 drops; gently blend and diffuse.
All-Purpose Diffuser Breathing Blend: Thyme 8 drops, Frankincense 6 drops, Myrrh 6 drops, Cypress 8 drops, Lemon 10 drops, Eucalyptus 10 drops, Marjoram 6 drops, White Fir 4 drops; create blend and then add 6-8 drops to the lotus diffuser. Run regularly in home or office to relieve breathing challenges.
Recovering from illness: Have 1 drop of Thyme at lunch orally for 7-10 days after illness for energy, purge latent mutant bacteria trying to create new problem, and lift spirits.
Discouraged and Dejected: Thyme Oil 2 drops, Rosemary 2 drops, coconut oil 3 drops; gently mix and rub on the bones behind your ears, and on the wrists, can also use in diffuser.
Vulnerable and Unassertive: Thyme 2 drops, White Fir 2 drops, coconut oil 3 drops,
Melancholic and Distant: Thyme 2 drops, Rosemary 3 drops, Clary Sage 3 drops, coconut oil 3 drops.
Snoring Relief: Thyme oil 2 drops rubbed into the back of the big toe on both feet and along The edge of the foot where the toes meet the foot ­ rub nicely and enjoy quieter sleep ­ may take several nights of applying to be most effective.

Staph (Staphylococcus Aureus) Infection: Thyme 3 drops, Melaleuca 3 drops, Geranium 2 drops, - may dilute with coconut oil 3 drops and apply to bottoms of feet, over the liver or take in capsules 3 times a day, or diffuse combo and keep breathing deeply.
Fungus (Black Mold, Candida, Ringworm as examples): Thyme 3 drops, Oregano 3 drops, Lemon 4 drops, mix as above.
Sore Throat Massage Oil: 1 ounce Coconut Oil, Thyme 2 drops, Lavender 3 drops, Eucalyptus 2 drops, Geranium 2 drops, Patchouli 1 drop; gently blend and massage the oil over your neck and throat to soothe a sore throat or swollen glands.
Candida Immune-Boosting Body Oil: 4 ounces Coconut oil, Thyme 3 drops, White Fir 6 drops, Geranium 6 drops, Frankincense 5 drops, Patchouli 3 drops, Myrrh 2 drops; gently blend oils together and apply to areas of skin where Candida rash may be expressing or to keep immune system boosted.
Immune System Booster: Balance 3 drops, Oregano 2 drops, Thyme 2 drops, coconut oil 2 drops each foot, Wintergreen 2 drops, Cypress 2 drops, Basil 2 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Peppermint 2 drops; start by applying 3 drops of Frankincense to palm of hand and rub hands together and rub on bottoms of both feet and then begin applying the oils to one foot and then the other from the bottom of the toes down to the heals. After all oils applied cover feet with cotton socks and relax for at least 15-30 minutes and drink 8 oz. of water within the next hour. Do this once a week (3x) when recovering from flu or surgery or pneumonia.
Appetite-Stimulating Stomach Rub: Coconut Oil 2 ounces, Thyme 2 drops, Basil 2 drops, Wild Orange 2 drops, Coriander 1 drop, Oregano 1 drop, Rosemary 1 drop; gently blend oils and massage the mixture over your stomach and abdominal area as needed.
Respiratory Rub: Coconut Oil 1 ounce, Thyme Oil 2 drops, Melaleuca 4 drops, White Fir 3 drops, Frankincense 6 drops; gently blend together and massage the mixture over your chest and back as needed to aid in breathing and to clear excess mucus.
Therapeutic Body Oil for CFS(chronic fatigue syndrome): 2 ounces of Coconut oil, Thyme 3 drops, Coriander 3 drops, Basil 3 drops, Oregano 4 drops, Geranium 8 drops; Gently blend, and massage the mixture onto your skin daily.
Compress for Back Pain: Thyme 1 drop, Helichrysum 1 drop, Eucalyptus 2 drops, Epsom Salts 1 tablespoon; add oils to Epsom salts and then to 1 quart of cold water and saturate a clean cloth in the water and apply it to the affected areas as needed.
Sciatica Soak: Epsom salts ½ cup, Thyme 2 drops, Marjoram 3 drops, Eucalyptus 2 drops; Mix oils into Epsom Salts and then the bath and then soak for 20 minutes.

Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to doTerra's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others. The oil of Elevation will be covered next week.

