Vetiver
Vetiveria Zizanoides
Nourishing, Restoring, Reconnecting (A little goes a very long way) Vetiver grass has long, narrow aromatic leaves and straight stems. Grows in tufts and is very tall; approximately 6 feet high. Its roots are spindly, but intensely aromatic. The Vetiver is steam distilled from the roots and is a very challenging process to gather and process the plant roots for the oil. Its scent is heavy, bitter and very earthy (kids ask for the oil that smells like dirt).
Antibacterial, antidepressant, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antiparasitic, antiseptic, relieves muscle spasms and can assist in relief of liver congestion, wound healing and relief of dry skin and oily scalps, mood lifter, pain relief for stiff joints of arthritis, rheumatism, sprains and strains. Helpful with insomnia, regulating appetite, and has proven effective with anorexia nervosa when used consistently.
Vetiver has a high level of sesquiterpene as part of its chemical make up. Sesquiterpene (BBB-Brain oxygenating) molecules deliver oxygen molecules to cells, like hemoglobin does in the blood. Sesquiterpenes can also erase or deprogram miswritten codes in cellular memory. Sesquiterpenes are thought to be especially effective in fighting cancer. *
Used with other essential oils in blends to hold the fragrances for a long time, really helps the citrus oil scents "pop" in blends.
Vetiver Oil balances the activity of the sebaceous glands, or oil glands, and helps to normalize oily skin and clear acne. It replenishes moisture in dry and dehydrated skin. Because it strengthens connective tissue of the skin, Vetiver has a rejuvenating effect on the complexion, particularly mature skin.
White Blood Cell Stimulant: Enhances immunity by increasing the production of white blood cells that fight infection. These are the cells that patrol your body, cleaning and literally gobbling up foreign invaders. **
Stimulates the Production of Red Blood Cells, which transport oxygen throughout the body. This again improves immunity and circulation. ***
Vetiver Oil normalizes either extreme sensitivity or insensitivity. It integrates spirituality with materialism, restores balance and harmony, brings thoughts and actions into focus, and helps to stabilize mental and physical energy.
*Aromatherapy for Healing the Spirit, Mojay, 1999, Healing Arts Press Healing Oils of the Bible, Stewart, 2005, Care Publications ** Aromatherapy for Dummies, 1999, Wiley *** Modern Essentials, 2009 Abundant Health, LLC. Aromatherapy, Roberta Wilson, 2002.
ADHD and anxiety relief have been reported by consistent users.
Diffusing Vetiver is relaxing and a great anti-depressant.

Anxiety can be relieved by mixing Vetiver with Myrrh 1:1 and applying behind the knees right after shower in the morning. The Vetiver and Myrrh are both rather thick in nature and will process gradually and lend a calming influence throughout the day. If you need to reapply after 3 or 4 hours use same ratio.
TMJ Massage Blend for jaw muscles: 1 ounce Fractionated Coconut Oil, Helichrysum 4 drops, White Fir 3 drops, Vetiver 2 drops, and Balance 2 drops
Tension-Buster: Vetiver 3 drops, Patchouli 1 drop, Wild Orange 2 drops, and Ylang Ylang 2 drops
Stress Reducing Bath: ½ cup Epsom salts, Lavender 2 drops, Cypress 2 drops, Geranium 1 drop, White Fir 1 drop, and Vetiver 1 drop
Stretch Mark Reducing Oil Blend: 1 ounce cocoa butter, melted, ½ ounce Fractionated Coconut Oil, 1/2 ounce rose hip seed oil, Lavender 8 drops, Grapefruit 3 drops, and Vetiver 3 drops
To Relieve Obsessive Over thinking: Vetiver 2 drops, Sandalwood 4 drops and apply to the back of the neck or on the bones behind the ears
To Relieve Preoccupation with Detail: Frankincense 3 drops, Vetiver 2 drops, and Lemon 1 drop
To cope with sudden fear, especially at night: Geranium 2 drops, Vetiver 2 drops, and Rose 1 drop
Sweet Sleep: 2 Tablespoons Fractionated Coconut Oil, Sandalwood 6 drops, Wild Orange 2 drops, Ylang Ylang 2 drops, Coriander 1 drops, and Vetiver 1 drop
Joint or muscle pain after injury: Vetiver 4 drops, Lavender 3 drops, and Bergamot 2 drops, all in a capsule and take internally
Post surgery blend for pain after joint replacement every 2 to 4 hours can help stretch other means: Vetiver 4 drops, Lavender 3 drops, Helichrysm 2 drops, and White Fir 2 drops in a capsule and take internally
Relieve absentmindedness and helps with clarity ­ rub on the back of the neck 2 to 5 times a day: Vetiver 4 drops, Peppermint 3 drops, and Frankincense 3 drops (can mix together and put in a roller bottle for easy application)
Information shared in this document by Dr. Susan Lawton is from research and practice; there are many more effective combinations of doTerra CPTG Oils than are listed here. NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Thank you for your sharing with others.

