Whisper
Blend For Women
Whisper is an amazing fragrance that is pleasing both to the wearer and those around you. It is a fragrance that is free of the harsh chemicals available to you in the colognes and perfumes of today. May contribute to hormone balancing, and reduce PMS symptoms. Calming, long lasting, and promotes a hint of an invitation to chat.
Antibacterial, gentle fluid balancer, calmative, cramp reducer, can positively affect symptoms of peri-menopause, considered by some to be an aphrodisiac,
Patchouli: antibacterial, antibiotic, antidepressant, anti-inflammatory, anti-microbial, antiseptic, antifungal, calmative, relieves anxiety.
Bergamot: antibacterial, anti-infectious, anti-inflammatory, antiparasitic, antispasmodic, relieves anxiety, cooling if too hot physically.
Sandalwood: antidepressant, antiseptic, antitumor, aphrodisiac, calming, sedative, and helps oxygen cross the BBB because high in susquiterpenes. It helps one accept others with an open heart, while diminishing one's own egocentricity*.
Rose Absolute**: aphrodisiac, cell rejuvenator, antiseptic, anti-inflammatory, relieves menstrual cramps and PMS symptoms including moodiness, can reverse impotency, antidepressant, and a stress reliever. High vibration level has amazing effect on elevating mood and attitude.
Jasmine Absolute**: good for jangled nerves, headaches, insomnia, sedates the nervous system taking the emotional edge off of PMS and menopause; relief of menstrual cramps, and muscle cramping, the scent stimulates brain waves and sharpens mental clarity. It produces feelings of confidence, energy and optimism*.
Cinnamon: antibacterial, antidepressant, antifungal, anti-infectious, anti-inflammatory, antispasmodic, antiviral, astringent, immune stimulant, sexual stimulant and very warming to system, enhances the action and activity of other oils.
Cistus Absolute**: enhances immunity and immune cell regeneration, antiviral, antibacterial, antihemorrhagic, anti-infectious, anti-inflammatory, supports sympathetic nervous system, calmative, elevates the emotions. Can be stimulating to the senses of touch, sight,and sound*.
Vetiver: antibacterial, antidepressant, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antiparasitic, antiseptic, relieves muscle spasms, helpful with insomnia, has a high level of sesquiterpene as a part of its chemical make up. BBB (Blood Brain Barrier) -Sesquiterpene allows molecules to deliver oxygen molecules to cells.

Ylang Ylang: antidepressant, antiseptic, antispasmodic, aphrodisiac, sedative, lowers blood pressure, soothes frustration, relieves insomnia; it brings back the feeling of self-love, confidence, joy and peace*.
Cocoa Bean Absolute**: has a pleasurable, soothing aroma.*
Vanilla Bean Absolute**: is calming, and may help ease tension. *
* Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, 2008, AromaTools.com. **Absolute: solvent extracted essential oils as opposed to being distilled.
Application: Apply on the bones behind the ears for a calming fragrance (balancing perfume)
Apply on the insides of the forearms to support hormone balance.
Apply around the core (center of cramping) for relief of cramping.
Apply on the webbing between thumb and forefingers on inside and outside of the hand for tension and distraction. Rub hands together and inhale.
Apply behind the knees in the morning to relieve PMS prior to onset of period. (On the days you wear the badge that says "I have PMS and a KNIFE speak to me at your own risk!")
Apply on the back of the neck into the back of the hair-line prior to sleepto relieve hot flashes during night.
Apply to temples for adjustment headaches.
For PMS constipation use GX Assist and PB Assist consistently for 3 months and use Whisper mixed with DigestZen across the lower abdomen several times a day.
Note - For more education on hormones and essential oils: Go to www.builddoterra.com Click on the WEBINAR ARCHIVE button Scroll down and you will see:
Hormones & Essential Oils Part I Dr. David Hill (rebroadcast from 2/23/2010)
Hormones & Essential Oils Part II Dr. David Hill (Rebroadcast from 3/31/2010)
Note: The advice shared in document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems.

