Why & How To Diffuse Essential Oils
The Ultimate Home Health Care Defense Against Infectious Disease
To diffuse essential oils in your home or office is a perfect way to help you relieve tension, dispel odors, and create an atmosphere of peace and harmony. When diffusing, essential oils have been reported to support the immune system and create a feeling of balance and wellbeing.
The Story - Why
When the great flu epidemic of 1918 was in full swing, gauze masks were worn over the face in attempts to keep from inhaling the lethal virus. It didn't work ...
The virus was many times smaller than the openings in the gauze. Many volunteers who wore those masks lost their lives, thinking they were safe, in removing the dead from homes and city morgues. They simply inhaled the virus right through their masks.
Today, we know that by diffusing a micro-fine, vaporized mist of therapeutic-grade essential oils into an enclosed atmosphere, potentially life-threatening viruses and bacteria are rendered harmless.
With the threat of super bugs growing ever more resistant to vaccines and antibiotics, diffusing essential oils makes more and more sense. It simply is the ultimate home health care defense against life-threatening organisms.
While diffusing essential oils will not stop a person from being infected outside of the home, it does create an infectious free zone of air within the home you can use to protect your loved ones. Breathing air diffused with essential oils attacks any virus or bacteria lining the respiratory tract which may have been inhaled outside of the infectious free zone. It also keeps the infection from spreading to other family members.
It may be years before every household routinely diffuses to keep the air purified and free of infectious organisms, but these devices are available today.
The Diffuser - How
The Lotus diffuser has a special air pump designed to disburse essential oils in a micro-fine vapor where they stay suspended for several hours to reduce airborne infectious pathogens, fungus, mold, and freshen the air with natural fragrances. When essential oils are diffused, the molecules are broken up into micro-fine mist particles. These mist particles stay suspended in the air for long periods of time. Not only does this reduce bacteria, mold and odors in the air, but these micro-mist particles also benefit those who inhale them.
Diffused oils don't just mask odors; they actually alter the structure of the molecules that create odors - rendering them harmless! They also increase the available oxygen in the room and produce negative ions.

Diffusing releases oxygenating molecules as well as negative ions, which kill microbes. Testing at Weber State University proves conclusively that diffusing essential oils kills life-threatening airborne micro-organisms.
Research also shows that cold-air diffusing certain oils may:
 Reduce bacteria, fungus, mold, and unpleasant odors.  Relax the mind and body, relieve tension, and clear the mind.  Help with weight management.  Improve concentration, alertness, and mental clarity.  Dispel odors.
Diffusing Ideas 1. When Cassia is diffused it can assist with fevers, colds, flu, low vitality, chills and will support the digestive system. 2. Cinnamon can assist with colds, coughs, and flu when diffused. 3. Put a few drops of Eucalyptus in a diffuser to assist with bronchitis, flu, and hay fever. 4. Frankincense when diffused creates a YUMMY pleasant fragrance, yet at the same time can be beneficial with bronchitis, headaches, and pneumonia. 5. If headaches, mental exhaustion, and depression is something you'd like to rid from your life, Grapefruit is the oil you will want to diffuse. 6. Diffusing Lavender oil may support the body's natural defense against air borne sensitivities to the skin and immune system. It can create a very relaxing atmosphere. 7. Lemongrass oil diffused can be used for nervousness and as an insect repellant. It is also great to revive the mind when feeling lethargic and to energize as well as relieving fatigue. 8. To promote sleep and feelings of peace, diffuse Marjoram. Can also prove to be beneficial when diffused for asthma, bronchitis, poor circulation, coughs, physical exhaustion, headaches, tension, insomnia, sinusitis, anxiety, nervous tension and stress. 9. Wild Orange when diffused can assist with colds, flu, nervous tension, and relaxing for children at bedtime. 10. Diffuse Peppermint oil in the room while studying to improve concentration and accuracy. 11.If you want a calming and relaxing atmosphere, diffuse Ylang Ylang. 12.Diffuse Purify to clean the air and neutralize foul or stale odors. 13.To help stop nocturnal teeth grinding, diffuse Serenity while sleeping, also to calm overactive or hard to manage children.
Note: Every four weeks, take a long Q-Tip or water color brush and gently swab the inside of your Lotus diffuser. Best performance is obtained when bottled water is used.
For further information contact the DoTerra Independent Consultant below:

