Wild Orange
Cistus Sinensis
Caution: Avoid direct sunlight for up to 12 hours after use on skin.
Wild Orange Oil is extracted through cold expression from the rind of the fruit because the medicinal properties of the rind have been used for centuries for a digestive tonic in Asia and Europe. The Early Chinese believed that the scent of Wild Orange Oil would create an atmosphere for "Good Luck" to walk in the door and bring prosperity for the whole family. In18th Century Europe, Orange Oil gained a reputation for alleviating nervous disorders, heart problems, colic, asthma, and melancholy.
Anti-Inflammatory, Anti-Depressant, Anti-Spasmodic, Aphrodisiac, Anti-Septic, Carminative, Diuretic, Tonic, Sedative, Detoxifier of glands and tissues, Anti-Cancer, Wound Healer, good for maintaining a healthy, smooth and glamorous skin, ant and fly repellent. Reported to heal mouth ulcers and gingivitis. It also soothes painful muscles and joints.
Being a carminative means being an agent that helps removal of gases from the Intestines. Gas, forming in intestines and pushing upwards, can be very troublesome. Gas, being lighter, moves upwards and pressures the internal organs, causing chest pains, indigestion and uneasiness, raises blood pressure, and can give you a serious stomach ache. Wild Orange Oil relaxes the muscles so the gas can escape and then creates an atmosphere where gas is less likely and spasms are eliminated.
Being a diuretic means that Wild Orange Oil can help in motivating urination to make toxins like uric acid, bile, excess salts, pollutants, and excess water be thrown out of the body with the urine. Urination increases appetite and promotes digestion. It contributes toward losing fats and is good for the heart and pericardium.
Wild Orange brings peace and happiness to the mind and body and joy to the heart which provide emotional support to help one overcome depression. It relieves anxiety, anger, and irritation often because of enhanced circulation and detoxifying of liver, and gall bladder. Wild Orange Oil helps us to take a more relaxed approach, encouraging adaptability and the smooth handling of events.

Dr. David Hill suggested: Wild Orange, Melissa, and Peppermint as a very good combo for a sold anti-depressant (convention, 2010, sat. afternoon notes) Wild Orange 4, Melissa 2 and Peppermint 2 works in diffuser, also in capsules taken as needed has been reported by some clients to be very effective. Anti-Anxiety diffuser Blend: Wild Orange Oil 5 drops, Patchouli 6 drops, Frankincense 6 drops, Geranium 8 drops, Bergamot 10 drops and Clary Sage 12 drops; Blend into a glass bottle and gently roll between hands and then add 4-6 drops to Lotus diffuser and enjoy.
Anti-Depression Diffuser Blend: Wild Orange 9 drops, Lavender 20 drops, Geranium 15 drops, Clary Sage 6 drops, White Fir 5 drops, Frankincense 3 drops, Ylang Ylang 2 drops.
Creativity Diffuser Blend: Wild Orange 15 drops, Coriander 12 drops, Myrrh 4 drops, Lemon 4 drops, Frankincense 2 drops, Ylang Ylang 2 drops. White Fir 2.
Relieve Frustrated & Irritable Attitude: Wild Orange 2 drops, Bergamot 2 drops, Roman Chamomile 2 drops.
Relieve Cold and Joyless Attitude: Wild Orange 2 drops, Ylang Ylang 2 drops, Myrrh 3 drops.
Relieve Frustrated, Tense, Negative Attitude: Wild Orange 2 drops, Bergamot 3 drops, Frankincense 1 drop.
Relieve Chronic Indecisiveness: Wild Orange 1 drop, Clary Sage 3 drops, Bergamot 2 drops.
Fear-less Personal Blend: 1/8 ounce fractunated coconut oil, Wild Orange 2 drops, Ginger 1 drops, Coriander 2 drops, Sandalwood 4 drops, Roman Chamomile 2 drops, Gently blend and apply on the bones behind the ears and use inhaler whenever you need to find your courage.
Appetite-Stimulating Stomach Rub: Fractunated Coconut Oil 2 ounces, Wild Orange 3 drops, Basil 2 drops, Thyme 2 drops, Coriander 1 drop, Oregano 1 drop, Rosemary 1 drop, massage the mixture over your stomach and abdominal area as needed. For patients who are bedridden apply to bottoms of feet and then have them inhale from a few drops on their hands rubbed together.
Jan Meredith's Orange Dressing: 2 quart bowl, cherries, blueberries, raspberries, grapes, blackberries, strawberries, cut up and gently stirred together ­ add 3 drops of wild orange oil, cover bowl with saran wrap, refrigerate for a minimum of ½ hour then take bowl and turn upside down carefully and up upside several times--that is it ­ amazing magic of all the fruits swap flavors due to the W.O. gently motivating the fruits. Amazing and so simple!!

Wild and crazy brownies: One box of Ghiardelli Brownie Mix and 3 drops of doTerra Wild Orange EO.mix and bake and serve..very uplifting/add Walnuts for extra peppy batch.
Wild Orange Truffles: (Ann Marie Grutta,N.J. IPC) 1 can Eagle Brand Milk 1 bag of dark chocolate chips doTerra Wild Orange EO Cocoa Powder
Melt milk and chips together for 1 minute in the microwave. As you stir, add 6-10 drops of Wild Orange EO. Pour into a greased 8 Ax 8 or smaller pan. Refrigerate for about 1 hour or more. Take a teaspoon-full and roll into ball (may be a little sticky) then roll in unsweetened cocoa powder. Place on wax paper and refrigerate until ready to serve!
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Respectfully researched and presented for sharing on Wild Orange by Dr. Susan Lawton, 2011.

