WINTERGREEN
Gaultheria Procumbens
Topical Aspirin
Caution: Use other oils for pain in bones during pregnancy, only takes a little ­ give it four minutes. Dilute 1:4 coconut oil if subject to epileptic seizures. Can be used as an alternative for Birch.
Wintergreen is steam distilled from leaves of a tough little plant that hugs the ground closely (plant fragrance itself is quite recognizable as used in gum or toothpaste) and has a strong penetrating aroma.
Wintergreen has properties that make it an effective; analgesic, anticoagulant, antiinflammatory, anti-rheumatic, antifungal, antiseptic, antispasmodic, disinfectant, diuretic, stimulant (bone) and warming. This oil may be beneficial for acne, bladder infection, cystitis, eczema, edema, reducing fever, gallstones, gout, infection, periodontal and gum disease, reducing discomfort in joints, kidney stones, draining and cleansing the lymphatic system, boosting the immune system, obesity, osteoporosis, skin diseases, scalp issues and dandruff, ulcers and urinary tract disorders. It is known for its ability to alleviate bone pain. It has a cortisone-like action due to the high content of methyl salicylate. For nerve or tissue pain use diluted 1:1 with coconut oil. Blends well with Basil, Bergamot, Cypress, Geranium, Helichrysum, Lavender, Lemongrass, Marjoram, Frankincense, White Fir and Peppermint.
Wintergreen will activate the Right Brain (is artistic and creative side), relieve those suffering from sluggish mind or "stuck" when diffused.
Wintergreen has great molecules that penetrate our skin very easily and rapidly. Due to the make up of Wintergreen, it is best to avoid using before, during or after heavy exercise as it will be too warm where applied ­ do not use with a heating pad over Wintergreen application either.
Occasional drop of Wintergreen in baking soda makes excellent toothpaste, antibacterial wash for gums and teeth and breath smells great.
All suggestions presented here are effective only with dTerra CPTG OILS and products!!!
Diffuse: 2-5 drops Wintergreen in your lotus diffuser and enjoy the clarity and antibacterial environment created.
Bone-Related Pain: Wintergreen 5 drops, Cypress 4 drops, White Fir 3 drops, Helichrysum 3 drops, Peppermint 2 drops. Gently mix and and apply to the area often.

Chronic Pain: To be effective you need to blend different groups to find one that works best for you ­ if use Vitality Pack regularly ­the need for pain oils will be reduced. You may slip in Oregano, Patchouli, Frankincense, White Fir, Clove or Rosemary with the Wintergreen blend.
Broken Bones Rapid Recovery: After seeing medical professional, apply this blend over the area if the skin is not broken or on the bottoms of the feet if it is a leg bone or ankle, or on the shoulders and back if an arm or an wrist that is in a cast. Wintergreen 5 drops, Frankincense 4 drops, Helichrysum 3 drops, Lemongrass 2 drops, White Fir 3 drops, Ginger 3 drops, Vetiver 4 drops. Mix gently and apply as often as possible ­ every 2 hours first 2 days ­ every 4 hours next 3 days, then am and pm. (If the first application seems too warm or the skin seems to redden quickly apply coconut oil with each application.
Rheumatism Remedy: Wintergreen 3 drops, doTerra Spa Hand and Body Lotion ­ pour 3 drops of oil ­ into palm of hand ­ add enough lotion to mix and rub into hands and wrists to relieve pain ­ or on knees ­ cooling, moisturizing and pain relief.
Muscle or joint aches and pain: Coconut Oil 1 Tablespoon, Wintergreen 8 drops, Basil 8 drops, Cypress 6 drops, Peppermint 3 drops. Gently blend and apply over painful areas. Vitality Pack every day will reduce and eliminate inflammation over time if used consistently.
Tight Muscle Relief: Coconut Oil 20 drops, Wintergreen 5 drops, Cypress 5 drops, Marjoram 6 drops, Vetiver 3 drops, Helichrysum 2 drops.
Torn Muscle Blend: Coconut Oil 2 Tablespoons, Wintergreen 5 drops, Helichrysum 5 drops, Oregano 4 drops, White Fir 7 drops, Sandalwood 7 drops, Frankincense 5 drops, Vetiver 4 drops, Lavender 3 drops. Gently blend and then apply 3-6 drops on the affected areas; Follow up with Aroma Touch Blend after 15 minutes of allowing initial blend to soak in.
Carpal Tunnel Blend: Coconut Oil 1 Tablespoon, Wintergreen 5 drops, Cypress 3 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Lemongrass 3 drops, Peppermint 2 drops; gently blend and apply to affected area 4-6 times a day.
Neck Pain and Stiffness: Coconut Oil 3 Tablespoons, Wintergreen 10 drops, Cypress 8 drops, Basil 15 drops, Lavender 5 drops; gently blend and apply to muscles around the neck and shoulders as needed.
Sprain Blend: Coconut Oil 1 Tablespoon, Wintergreen 5 drops, White Fir 4 drops, Lemongrass 4 drops, Cypress 6 drops; gently mix blend and apply to area and behind the area.

Sore Throat Quickie: Wintergreen 2 drops, Lemon 3 drops, Eucalyptus 2 drops; Gently mix and gargle using a couple ounces of warm water, or apply outside the throat, or use a warm compress on the outside of the throat.
MS ­ Multiple Sclerosis: (MS is an autoimmune disease in which the immune system attacks and gradually destroys the myelin sheath (covers and insulates the nerves) and the underlying nerve fibers of the central nervous system, interfering with communication between the brain and the rest of the body) ­ to enhance the communication and sooth the nerves ­ Wintergreen 4 drops, Frankincense 4 drops, Sandalwood 3 drops, Thyme 3 drops and Peppermint 2 drops ­ mix with 1 tablespoon of coconut oil and apply on the back of the neck up into the hair line, bottoms of feet and over the lower back am and pm.
Immune System Booster: Balance 3 drops, Oregano 2 drops, Thyme 2 drops, coconut oil 2 drops each foot, Wintergreen 2 drops, Cypress 2 drops, Basil 2 drops, Marjoram 2 drops, Peppermint 2 drops; start by applying 3 drops of Frankincense to palm of hand and rub hands together and rub on bottoms of both feet and then begin applying the oils to one foot and then the other from the bottom of the toes down to the heals. After all oils applied cover feet with cotton socks and relax for at least 15-30 minutes and drink 8 oz. of water within the next hour. Do this once a week (3x) when recovering from flu or surgery or pneumonia.
Stimulating Massage Oil Blend: Coconut Oil 4 ounces, Wintergreen 20 drops, Marjoram 15 drops, Cypress 10 drops, Patchouli 10 drops, White Fir 5 drops. Blend all oils into the coconut oil and use for massage ­ real wake up muscle toner.
Resources we use on a regular basis: Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995
{www.Aromatools.com} for: Spritzers, Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to dTerra's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others. Next week we will cover Thyme.

