Ylang  Ylang  
Cananga  odorata  
It only takes a little... apply to the skin...and can relieve anger and frustration...
The tall (65ft.) Ylang Yalng tree originated in the Philippines, but is now grown throughout tropical Asia for the perfume trade and even used as a flavoring in beverages and desserts. The name, meaning "flower of flowers," describes the sweet, yellow blooms, which produce the essential oil. The scent is intensely sweet, heady, floral, and slightly spicy, with overtone of narcissus or banana. Many people prefer to blend this with other oils to mellow its intensity. Blends well with Lemon, Bergamot, Geranium, Grapefruit, Marjoram, Sandalwood and Vetiver.
Antidepressant, antidiabetic, anti-infectious, anti-inflammatory, anti-parasitic, antispasmodic, antiseptic, aphrodisiac, hypotensive, sedative, relieves sexual anxiety and enhances relationships. It may help stimulate adrenal glands.
Often relieves depression, frigidity, hypertension, impotence, insomnia, mental fatigue, nervous tension, palpitations, respiration stress, shock, skin rashes and indecisiveness.
Ylang Ylang oil soothes and inhibits anger born of frustration. Psychologically, Ylang Ylang calms, uplifts, creates a sense of peace and aids self-expression of repressed inner feelings. It minimizes aggressive behavior, anger, rage, and fear, while fostering feelings of confidence, love, security, and serenity. It stimulates enthusiasm and can provide comfort during times of change. Ylang Ylang oil encourages positive emotions and feelings and helps to improve harmony and confidence. It awakens an appreciation of self and others, as well as of the beauty of life. It helps individuals attract and recognize enjoyable experiences and pleasure in everyday life. It inspires creativity, intuition, and understanding, and helps both men and women to enjoy their feminine qualities.
Early in the 20th Century the French chemists Garnier and Rechler discovered the effectiveness of Ylang Ylang against Malaria, Typhus and infections of the intestinal tract. They also noted its calming and balancing action on the heart. Relief from severe nervous tension effects like palpitations, hypertension and tachycardia (rapid heartbeat) was reported then and now.
Because it eases muscle spasms and relaxes tense muscles, Ylang Ylang provides relief from backache, sciatica, and TMJ syndrome. The effect on the nervous system is euphoric, sedative, and hypotensive. It is indicated in states of anxiety, tension, and high blood pressure. As well as reducing high blood

pressure, Ylang Ylang relieves tachycardia (abnormally fast heart-beat) and hyperpnoea (abnormally fast breathing). Can help in treating female disorders such as irregular periods, menstrual cramps, and premenstrual syndrome (PMS). Ylang Ylang can be very calming and comforting to women going through menopause. It also soothes the inflammation and irritation of psoriasis, eczema and other types of dermatitis.
Ylang Ylang is a skin treatment for oily skin types, by balancing oil production and reduces excessive oiliness, insect bites, and in hair treatments to promote thick, shiny, lustrous hair (also reported to help control split ends). It has been successfully used to treat colic, constipation, indigestion, stomachaches and hiccups.
No Skin irritation or discomfort, non-toxic; use a little and then add more if needed.
Everything shared here is about and with doTERRA CPTG Essential Oils
Diffuse Ylang Ylang to set a positive romantic atmosphere by itself or combine with Wild Orange or Grapefruit to invite romance more loudly!!!
Spring Sensual Diffuser Blend: Ylang Ylang 3 drops, Coriander 2 drops, Ginger 2 drops, Vetiver 1 drop, and Clary Sage 5 drops. Gently blend in glass container and add some drops to diffuser.
Diffuse for Good Night Sleep: Ylang Ylang 2, Roman Chamomile 4, and Marjoram 4 drops.
Calming Blend for Diffusing: Ylang Ylang 10 drops, Clary Sage 10 drops, Geranium 12 Drops, Roman Chamomile 12 drops, Lavender 18 drops, and Wild Orange 5 drops. Mix gently in glass container and then add to your diffuser product.
Diffuse for Hypertension Relief: Ylang Ylang 3 drops, Clary Sage 5 drops, Lavender 4 drops, and Marjoram 2 drops.
Stress-Smoothing Massage Oil: 2 ounces Fractionated Coconut Oil, Ylang Ylang 3 drops, Roman Chamomile 4 drops, White Fir 4 drops, Marjoram 3 drops, and Frankincense 3 drops. Blend gently and apply often.

PMS Body Oil Blend: Ylang Ylang 3 drops, Roman Chamomile 4 drops, Clary Sage 6 drops, Coriander 4 drops, and Whisper 6 drops. Gently blend and apply to body, abdomen and feet.
Nighttime Muscle Relief Oil Blend: 3 ounces Coconut Oil, Basil 6 drops, Roman Chamomile 4 drops, Marjoram 10 drops, Clary Sage 4 drops, Coriander 4 drops, and Cypress 6 drops. Gently blend and apply to sore muscles prior to sleep.
Nighttime Massage Oil: Fractionated Coconut Oil 2 ounces, Ylang Ylang 4 drops, Lavender 5 drops, Vetiver 2 drops, Melissa 1 drop, and Cypress 1 drop.
Hypertension Massage Oil: Fractionated Coconut Oil 1 ounce, Ylang Ylang 4 drops, Lavender 4 drops, Melissa 1 drop, Wild Orange 2 drops. Gently combine and apply to feet and legs.
Joyous Person Oil Blend: Fractionated Coconut Oil 4 teaspoons, Ylang Ylang 1 drop, Rose Oil 2 drops, Wild Orange 2 drops, Bergamot 3 drops, and White Fir 1 drop.
Harmony Personal Blend: Fractionated Coconut Oil 4 teaspoons, Ylang Ylang 2 drops, Frankincense 4 drops, Geranium 4 drops, and Vetiver 1 drop.
Loving Bath Blend: Ylang Ylang 3 drops, Coriander 2 drops, and Sandalwood 1 drop. Add to Epsom salt and enjoy!
Romantic Bath Recipe for Two: Ylang Ylang 1 drop, Patchouli 3 drops, Geranium 1drop, and Clary Sage 2 drops. Add oils to ½ cup Epsom Salt, add hot water and stir. Make water a good temperature for both parties and soak for 10 ­ 15 minutes and let the magic happen!!!
Blood Pressure-Reducing Bath: Ylang Ylang 3 drops, Clary Sage 2 drops, and Marjoram 1 drop. Add to ½ cup Epsom salt and then add hot water and stir to dissolve and make good temperature to relax for 10 ­ 15 minutes.
Esteem-Boosting Bath: Ylang Ylang 2 drops, Patchouli 2 drops, Cypress 2 drops, and Bergamot 4 drops. Add oils to Epsom salt and enjoy!

Normal Hair Conditioning Treatment: Fractionated Coconut Oil 1 ounce, Ylang Ylang 2 drops, Lavender 5 drops, Roman Chamomile 3 drops, and Geranium 1 drop. Once or twice a month massage the mixture into your scalp and hair. Wrap your hair in a towel for one hour. Then shampoo with SanoBella Shampoo and SanoBella Conditioner from doTERRA.
TMJ Blend: Fractionated Coconut Oil 4 teaspoons, Ylang Ylang 4 drops, Frankincense 5 drops, Cypress 6 drops, White Fir 2 drops, and Wild Orange 4 drops. Apply morning, noon, and night on jaw line on both sides and up under the ears too.
Resources we use on a regular basis:
Essential Oils Reference Guide, R.L. James, 2009 Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908. Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Books, Bags, and Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. Thank you for your sharing with others.

