Zendocrine Essential Oil Blend
Zendocrine Detoxification Complex Capsules & Essential Oil Blend were formulated to work together as is well described in our virtual office under Business tools "A to Z," under Zendocrine at the bottom of the page.
Especially formulated proprietary blend of therapeutic-grade essential oils to be used in support of the cleansing organs of the body. This oil is particularly effective in releasing old "stuff" from the Liver (rage, anger, self-pity, disappointments, polymer toxins, sludge and mold).
dõTerra's Zendocrine Detoxification Essential Oil Blend is a proprietary formula composed of:
Clove: Clove Oil has the following properties: Analgesic, Anti-aging, Antibacterial, Anticonvulsant, Anticoagulant, Antifungal, Anti-infectious, AntiInflammatory, antioxidant, anti-parasitic, strong antiseptic, antitumor, antiviral, disinfectant, Immune Stimulant..,
Research indicates Clove Bud's usefulness for Poliomyelitis, Multiple Sclerosis, Cholera, Hodgkin Disease, Hepatitis, Malaria, Viral Colitis, Dysentery, Spasmodic Colitis, Thyroid Imbalance, Arthritis, Viral Neuritis, Neuralgia, and Cystitis.
According to Nicole Stevens Research, Clove oil has a great affinity for inhibiting the growth and reproduction of Cervical and Skin Cancers. **** The really cool part of using essential oils each day is the opportunity to keep the inner workings of the body optimal and resist aging. Nicole's study revealed in great detail that using essential oils can be effective at keeping the internal environment of the body healthy without side effects of leaving debris behind or hurting healthy cells in killing off pathogens, cancer producing elements and free radicals.
Clove oil has the Phenylpropanoids (like in Cassia, Cinnamon, Oregano, etc.) that can create conditions where unfriendly viruses and bacteria cannot live, the most important function they perform is that they clean the receptor sites on our cells. Without clean receptor sites, cells cannot communicate, and the body malfunctions, resulting in sickness.
Dr. Hill has taught us in many ways and given many examples of the same three principles of why essential oils are such effective healing and age reversing blessings for us all. First, they clean receptor sites on the surfaces of cells allowing the proper transfer of hormones, peptides, neurotransmitters, steroids and other intracellular messengers. Second, the deprogramming of bad information that has glommed onto the "RNA gold card" that is your special recipe of cell reproduction for perfect cells. This is the "quantum healing" factor

that lead me thru so much research for years. Third, ability to reprogram the perfect cellular information so body can repair itself. The heavy chemistry is available on line and in many books available www.aromatools.com.
Grapefruit: antidepressant, anti-cancerous, antiseptic, antispasmodic, astringent, disinfectant, diuretic, eating disorders, gall bladder and liver congestion, stress reduction. Reported to be very helpful in changing eating habits and supportive in Lymphatic Decongestion, and in recovery from a drug addiction. Cleansing effect on the kidneys, the lymphatic system and the vascular system is gentle but thorough.
Grapefruit is a valuable oil for fluid retention, calcium debris elimination, cellulite and other conditions where toxins are not being eliminated effectively, being a detoxifier and stimulant of the lymphatic system.
Rosemary: Rosemary is an Adrenal cortex stimulant, analgesic, anti-arthritic, antibacterial, anticancer, anti-catarrhal, antifungal, anti -infectious,(especially staph and strep), anti-inflammatory, antispasmodic, antioxidant, anti-parasitic, antiseptic, is an astringent, colitis, diuretic, great expectorant of cloggy sticky mucous, (Respiratory System and Digestive System both).
It aids in the relief of asthma, bronchitis, colds, sinusitis and whooping cough. It is a stimulant of gall bladder, Liver (Cirrhosis healer) and stomach, improves circulation and is warming when applied to back and feet. Migraines and muscle spasms can be relieved promptly with direct application in some cases. Rosemary oil also stimulates cell renewal.
Rosemary tones the entire body (like the First Chair Concert Violinist warming up the Orchestra) and aids as a way to treat Candida albicans, chronic fatigue syndrome, and weakened immunity. It soothes the itching and inflammation of psoriasis, eczema, and other types of dermatitis.
Geranium: Analgesic, antidepressant, antibacterial, anti-infectious, antiseptic, astringent, deodorant, gentle diuretic, haemostatic (it stops bleeding), tonic for the liver and kidneys, (kidney stone break up), relieves premenstrual tension, UTI (Urinary Tract Infection) relief; Valnet spoke highly of Geranium as an anti cancer agent for some of the early identified cancers (Breast, Prostate, Lung) tumor based. Also for dry coughs tonsillitis and respiratory issues. Nicole Stevens' research reported that Geranium proved effective in inhibiting the activity of cervical cancer cells.
Geranium has been reported to reduce the symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome and candidiasis (single-celled fungus). Improves immune system and is helpful as a stimulant for both lymphatic and circulatory systems.

Geranium is a great balancer, due to it being an adrenal cortex stimulant, and helps regulate moods.
The Zendocrine Blend is recommended as part of the Slim and Sassy Program with the Zendocrine Detoxification Complex for clearing out the "old" stuff so your systems can operate more smoothly and enhance your quality of life with fewer toxins on board.
The Zendocrine blend can be used by itself to release toxins from the Liver and Skin so that your receptor sites for healthy activity within the cells is improved.
Detox: 3-5 drops of Zendocrine Oil Blend in 4 fl. oz. of liquid in the evening or apply directly over the liver after dinner.
Zendocrine Detoxification Complex Capsules - Made with SLS-Free Vegetable Capsules
dõTerra's Zendocrine Detoxification Complex is a proprietary blend of whole-food extracts in a patented enzyme delivery system that supports healthy cleansing andfiltering functions of the Liver, Kidneys, Colon, Lungs and Skin.
A list of the individual food elements in this blend are on the description pages in the back office - under Business Tools - A-Z.
Primary Benefits: Supports healthy cleansing and filtering functions of the liver, kidneys, colon, lungs and skin. Supports normal self-detoxification functions of the cleansing organs
I recommend that you use these products together for three weeks and then take a week off unless you are on the full Slim and Sassy Program -- then use according to directions. Supports longevity and good health in healthy people who just eat and live moderately ... Supports cleanses of all kinds - season change, onset of dietary restrictions, recovery from Chemo/Radiation treatment for Cancer, Return to USA after overseas work of 6 weeks or more, joint replacement surgery, Heart or Stroke episode recovery....
Resources we use on a regular basis: Nicole Stevens, EO in Cancer ­aroma tools Modern Essentials, Abundant Health, LLC, 2009 Healing Oils of The Bible, David Stewart, 2005. Aromatherapy in Medicine, Jacque du Preneau, 1908.

Aromatherapy, Essential Oils for Vibrant Health and Beauty, Roberta Wilson, 2002 Clinical Aromatherapy, Essential Oils in Practice, by Jane Buckle ,RN,PhD.,2003 Aromatherapy Handbook for Beauty, Hair and Skin Care, by Erich Keller, 1992 Aromatherapy For Healing The Spirit, by Gabriel ojay, 1997 The Art of Aromatherapy, Robert Tisserand, 1995 {www.Aromatools.com} for: Spritzers, Books, Bags, Tools etc.
NOTE: The advice shared in this document has not been evaluated by the FDA. The products and methods recommended are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any illness or disease, nor is it intended to replace proper medical help. Kindly understand that essential oils work to help to bring the body into balance - thus helping the body's natural defenses to restore homeostasis. Essential oils are not used to "treat" medical problems. This document was researched and prepared as a beginning for new people to doTerra's CPTG Essential Oils by Dr. Susan Lawton. If you have questions about our next oil presentation you may send questions to: slawton1@optonline.net . That way we will cover the answers during the presentation ­ there will be NO individual responses. Thank you for your sharing with others. Our next call will cover Bergamot, on May 2nd.

